
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                            A Couple of Tart Remarks
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                Written by »CL5:Hobb

»CL1:Most of you have no clue  as to  who I
am, which might be  for  the  best  in
some  cases.  »CL8:However,   having   some
knowledge about the scene, living with
a  member  of  IRIS  and  having spell
checked  this  issue   of    Eurochart»CL1:
(probably  not  flawless,  though),  I
feel that I am  entitled to express my
opinion about a specific matter. I  am
well aware  that  there  are  not many
Amiga-sceners  left  in   the   world.
Nevertheless, I have to say that it is
not many  of  these  few   who make an







effort  to  keep  this  exclusive club
from total extinction! By this remark,
I am  referring  to  the    number  of
supporting writers  for the Eurochart,
which could be somewhat larger than at
present.»CL7: The  same  people are writing
the articles in  every  issue.  Can it
really be  true  that  only  18 people
have an opinion about things?»CL1: Come on,
how hard can it be to  write  10 lines
about   any    given    subject?   All
Amiga-sceners share the responsibility
of developing the scene for the better
- it does not  do so by itself, and in
my  humble  opinion, it is inexcusable
not  to  participate  in  the debates,
unless of course  one thinks it is for
the best that the Amigascene dies out!

»CL8:However, I  am  not  very  fond of the
supporting writers either! I am  aware
that  writing  an  article can be hard
work, and  surely  graphics  can  be a
hard nut to crack,»CL1: BUT.. this is still
not a valid excuse for not keeping the
deadlines! The deadline for this issue
was set for 31. Oct. 2001.. we are now
writing  18.  Jan. 2002, and still the
main  graphics  are not finished! What
is  this?  Kindergarten?   Missing   a
deadline  by  a  couple of days, I can
understand,  but 3 months???? Shame on
you! I am quite convinced  that people
would  come  up  with  a  ton  of lame
excuses if  anyone  cared  to ask why,
regardless  of  the  fact  that  it is
inexcusable. If the  missed  deadlines
are  an  expression  of  some  sort of
problem, like you do not know when the
deadline is or  you are told too late,
then you should  tell  the editors, so
they have  a  fair  chance  to improve
these  things.  »CL7:However, if it is  not
the  expression  of    any   problems,
besides  laziness  and   indifference,
then  I  think  you  should   all  ask
yourselves  whether  you  are actually
interested in having these diskmags at
all!»CL1: A group  of  people are putting a
lot of work  into providing you with a
media  in   which     you   have   the
opportunity to exchange opinions, news
and  new  ideas  in  order to keep the
Amigascene  and  community  alive, and
the very least anyone  could expect in
return  was  for  the  deadlines to be
kept!!

»CL8:You should all remember  that you have
special skills in this field. Only few
people master the Amiga now a day, and
there is a  need for all of you.»CL1: It is
easy to follow the stream and quit the
Amiga,  but  you  have  the courage to
continuously  develop  and   set   new
standards for  what can  and cannot be
done with an  Amiga. It  is  therefore
beyond my  grasp  why  you do not take
advantage of this  by using the forums
available to  you. In the end, it  all
comes down to the fact that no one can
change this but you!

These  allegations  might  sound a bit
harsh,  especially   coming    from  a
stranger with no  actual connection to
the scene. However, someone has to say
it,  so  why  not I,   and   in   that
perspective you can also argue that if
an outsider can see some problems then
something  must  definitely  be wrong!
        »PIC:3.iff»
