
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                              Aggressive or What?
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Written by »CL5:Adonis »CL6:of »CL5:IRIS

»CL1:In  my opinion, the  idea  behind this
article  is  much needed! Why? Because
after reading and editing the articles
for issue  43  of  Eurochart,  I  felt
depressed. »CL6:I could not  understand why
so many people had  so many bad things
to tell about other sceners»CL1:.  The tone
in the previous issue  was not good in
my opinion. This is  a  shame  because
people get tired of  that tone after a
while and simply do not  want  to hear
and read about it anymore! This is how
I feel and I am quite  sure that there







are  more  people  out there, who have
the same opinion regarding this topic.

I have  heard that  some  people think
the Eurochart should evolve and not go
back to the elite days where everybody
flamed everybody, something I can only
agree with.  Why  spend  so  much time
doing   that    instead   of   working
together? »CL6:I  cannot  see  the point of
wasting an article  with  this purpose
in mind»CL1:. Christ, send the man a letter
or an  E-Mail  if  you have  such  big
problems with him. Why does  the  rest
of the scene have to be a part of your
problems! I  do  not  write  about  my
daily problems in life! I do not think
that   you   would   find   them  very
interesting. This  is what  I  use  my
close friends  for  whom I can contact
via swapping or E-Mail and  since this
form works out fine for my part, I  am
sure that it would work out for you as
well! 

              »PIC:4.iff»







If  I have  to  show you an example, I
will  not have to search hard.  I  can
give  you  a  great  example  from the
previous  issue  of  Eurochart, Azzaro
vs. Darkhawk  or should  I  say Azzaro
vs. the Western scene. This was a good
topic  at  first  and I enjoyed to see
the  response  to it,  no  doubt about
that,  but  no   one   can  take  this
following flaming  serious! »CL6:I  thought
that we had to do with grown-up people
who have  tendency  to  make  childish
things»CL1:! At least this is how I see the
"common" scener  these days!  However,
things started  to get personal or  at
least  that  is what  I  learned  from
those  articles  and  at a point I had
enough   of  that.  So  I  decided  to
exclude  those   from   the   list  of
articles, I wanted to read.  The  only
reason I know that Azzaro  wrote  this
article for the  last  issue is that I
edited  it  and  therefore had to read
it.

»CL6:Nevertheless,  Azzaro,  I love you for
your  ending  of  that discussion»CL1:. You
asked people not to write an answer to
your article and I  think this was the
wisest move, since the debate started!

But the Poland Vs. Western  is not the
only  topic that cast shadows over the
Eurochart  in  my  opinion. »CL1:The  story
about  Devotion»CL1:   is   also  a  really
annoying thing to  think about!  »CL7:Magic
only used his article to flame certain
sceners»CL1:,  who  is  not  important, but
Magic, could  you  please  fight  that
battle  via  E-Mail instead. We do not
know the truth and  we might  not ever
find  out  what  the truth is! Also in
this issue  people  are flamed. Darkus
has written  a  great  article  in  my
opinion.  Go  read "The Devotion Saga"
and see  what  he  is  trying  to tell
people»CL1:! I  only  dislike  one thing in
the article and that is the flaming of
Magic!  If  the   things   Darkus  has
written  are true, then  Magic  should
start thinking about what he is doing!
And if Darkus do not  tell the  truth,
then he never  should have included it
in the article! Frankly, I do not care
what the truth is, and  we  cannot  be
sure who is  telling the truth. I know
what I think, but  I  do not have both
sides of the story and I am  sure that
if I ask Magic he  has  another story.

»CL6:My  point  being  that  the  debate is
based on a poor foundation, inevitably
causing it to break down»CL1:.

Could it be that this  is  what people
want? I  actually do  know  a  few who
love to read such things and I suppose
this is the reason  why people keep on
reading   these   various   magazines.

All   this   flaming  is  killing  the
spirit.  We  do   not  need   personal
flaming!  »CL6:However,  some  healthy, old
group  flaming/wars harm  no one»CL1:. They
can  sometimes  make  sure  that  your
members  will   be  more  active.  You
should remember  one thing; the  Amiga
society is  getting  smaller  and does
personal  flaming   really  help  this
society to survive? Or  maybe  this is
not what we all want?

»CL7:Just try to be objective next time you
load  you  editor and start writing an
article»CL1:,  I  am   sure   the  feedback
will  be   much  more  positive  then.


        »PIC:3.iff»
