
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                   Are Charts Really Supporting The Scene?
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         Written by »CL5:Alvin »CL6:of »CL5:Nah Kolor

»CL1:Humans have always had the competitive
instinct in them.  Wherever  it  might
be, at  work, in  school  or  at  home
with   siblings, »CL6:   the    factor   of
competition  has  always  been  there»CL1:.
Even as small children, we  played war
and always wanted to be on the winning
team.  In school, most people tend  to
want  to  be with the popular  people,
whether if  they  are  geeks  or  not.
At work, everyone wants  higher wages,
a better position and does not want to
settle for second best.







The Scene is also very competitive and
 just  as  in  real  life,  there  are
indicators   of   our    success   and
popularity.  In real life, it might be
money, respect and a nice car.  In the
Scene, it is  the respect of being the
one topping the charts.

Charts  have  been around for ages, it
seems.  »CL7:The Eurochart  has been around
the  longest»CL1:  and  together with other
charts, Showtime in the last years and
others  no longer  in production, they
are  the   factors    that   determine
popularity  and  respect in the Scene.

»CL7:Naturally, in  themselves  charts  are
only the indicator of popularity»CL1:.  The
reason  Sceners  end  up on the charts
is  usually  that they have produced a
piece of art that is highly  admirable
and therefore  worthy  of respect from
other Sceners. One only needs  to take
a look at the  charts  to see that the
ones topping  the  charts are  usually
those  who  are  active   and  produce
quality  graphics,  music,  or   code.

However,   as    many   well-respected
Sceners have left the Scene throughout
the  years,  their  presence  on   the
charts has  not  decreased.   Instead,
many Sceners who are no  longer active
continue  to  linger  on in the top of
the charts. Like ghosts from the past,
they  continue  to  haunt  the  active
people issue after issue.

Should  this  be so? Should people who
are no longer active  continue to fill
the  charts?   I  do  not believe this
is right. There are many Sceners whose
goal  is  to one day reach the charts.
They work hard to do so.  They produce
excellent   graphics,   awesome music,
and  thrilling  code.  Yet, they never
reach the  charts  in  many  cases. »CL6:Is
it fair  to  them  to be left out just
because  legends  linger  on   in  the
charts?»CL1: Surely, it is not.

Some  years  ago, someone suggested  a
similar thing  to what this article is
proposing. »CL7:Someone had the idea to add
another chart, just for those legends,
in order for the ordinary charts would
be  freed  up  for  active Sceners»CL1:. So
far,  the  only  chart  known  to this
writer that  has  actually implemented
this system is Showtime.

Recently,   there    has   been   more
controversy  concerning   the  charts.
Wade wrote an article about the Polish
dominance of  the charts. He contended
that  since  so  many  to  us  unknown
Polish Sceners are on the charts, they
must be fixed. That is, Polish Sceners
vote  for  their  friends.   Magic  of
Nah-Kolor   sharply    disagreed    in
Eurochart 41.  There is  some truth to
both sides.   There  might  be a great
presence  of  Polish  Sceners  on  the
charts but why blame them for that? At
least  they  are voting. Many of us in
the west seem  to  be too lazy to vote
so in the end it is our own fault when
the  Polish  Sceners  end  up  on  the
charts.  How  can  we expect people to
be on the charts if we do not take the
time to actually vote?

At   the   same   time,  it is easy to
complain   about   including   or  not
including people on the charts. In the
end,  it  is  very  much  an  activity
issue. »CL6:The Sceners who desire to reach
the  charts  need  to  be  active »CL1: and
everyone  else  out there  need to get
their  rear  in gear and take the time
to vote. How else can we expect to get
the results we desire?
