
»CL6:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                                  Become A Coder
»CL6:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         Written by »CL5:Sagrael »CL6:of »CL5:Appendix


»CL1:I  bet  that  many  sceners  sometimes
consider, how it would feel,  if  they
were coders. Does one need any special
abilities? Does one  need  to remember
all sin() & cos() tables and  hundreds
of [wzorów], or  does  one  need to be
born as  a coder? Today, two  assembly
geniuses   from   Potion,   Mavey  and
Diamond, and I  will  answer these and
many others questions.










»CL1:For  most   of   us,  regular sceners,
coding  rather  associates with black-
or  voodoo  magic than real abilities.
Maybe  some  of  us  think  coders are
wizards,  casting  their   spells  and
using  forbidden  books? Is this true?
Does coding  really  has  something in
common with magic?





                »CL4:Mavey:

»CL7:I think that if you like something, or
even love it, there is always a bit of
magic in it, something attracting that
fascinates  you.  That  is  why I am a
coder :)   Therefore,  if  you  are  a
coder,  you  can cast a spell, and see
its results on your monitor, just like
a magician  and  this  is truly great,
especially,  when  other  people  also
like it. (Thanks Wouter=!)

»CL1:Unfortunately, to  like  something  is
not enough to learn it. Mastering  all
the asm mnemonics is too  heavy a task
for   many   people!   Even   if  they
constantly try to  do their best, they
still  cannot  call   themselves  real
coders.  Out   of   curiosity,  should
coders  have  any  special  abilities?

                »CL4:Mavey:

»CL7:Well, it is  hard to tell. I know many
coders and I have not noticed anything
"uncommon". I  can  only  say that one
needs  a  huge   amount  of  patience,
especially in the beginning, when your
work, although  it  is hard, is  being
held  very  cheap.  Later, when we are
more known  to  the  scene, it is much
easier.  However,  a  coder  is   kept
motivated   to   work  by  many  other
things as well.

»CL1:So  we  can say; patience  and a  huge
amount of strong will! How about math?
I  cannot  imagine  a   coder  without
knowledge of math...  Must a coder be
a great mathematician?


»PIC:2.iff»















               »CL4:Diamond:

»CL6:Maybe not "great", but at least  good.
Math  is  an essential ingredient  and
without it, you  cannot  start messing
with 3D.

                »CL4:Mavey:

»CL7:Not really to be honest, but sometimes
math  is  essential  for  a coder. For
sure, while making  basic effects, one
must   have    knowledge  on   adding,
subtracting,    and    multiplying  :)
Nevertheless, I  think  that  the most
important                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  thing is your imagination. Why? Because you can invent very interesting new effects and ways to make them, which any "normal" person would not be able to invent :) Though in some cases, you cannot do anything without math. Especially in optimalization of a 3D engine, and of course in ray tracing!


»CL1:I  bet  you  have  wondered,  how  the
assembly   magicians   of  today   got
started.  Did  they  write  impressive
routines  just  after  bringing   home
their  Amigas  from  the store, or  do
their computer roots lie deeper in the
past?   How   did   their  programming
(coding) career get  started  and  was
their  first  machine  even  an Amiga?

               »CL4:Diamond:

»CL6:I started with BASIC on C64. I think I
was  9  years  old  then, so I did not
make anything  impressive at the time.
I  started  with  assembly on the A600
when I was in the 8th class of primary
school,  [so    he    was   about   14
-translator], and I already knew about
the scene, demos  etc. at  that  time.
Later  it  has   somehow    developed.

                »CL4:Mavey:

»CL7:I hate the word "programming", because
it sounds  somewhat  commercial, and I
just do not like it, but okay. I think
that everything started  out with that
magical computer, C64  of course. That
was a thing! I started out  by playing
games like  most  others, but  as time
went by so did the  satisfaction I got
from playing. At first I tried to draw
(art studio. :), but later, when I got
a book about  BASIC  I started to mess
with it.  At  first, I  could  not  do
anything,  but  later, after  numerous
long  hours  spent  in  front  of  the
computer    while     searching    for
characters on the keyboard ,  it began
to pay off. There was  one nasty thing
though! Everything I made was too slow
and  many  things  caused this,  but I
decided  to  do  something  about  it,
and  I   realized   that   there   was
something called "Assembly  language".
Therefore, I decided to  learn it, but
it   appeared   to   be  a  bit  hard,
especially because I did  not have ANY
books  about  assembly. I once managed
to  re - write an effect from BASIC to
assembly and  then  I  decided only to
code  in  assembly! I  suddenly saw my
programs  running  incredible fast :).
Later  I  bought  the  A600 and then I
started,  fascinated  by  coding, with
the decision of  also making something
on  the  Amiga. This took me much more
time  than  before :).  Now, I have  a
powerful Amiga and  I  still  write in
assembly,   only  in  PowerPC  one :).
However, I am  faithful to Amiga CPUs.
Sometimes I must make  a program  in C
for  my  school,  but  I am paid to do
this, and can use  the money to invest
in my Amiga :)

»CL1:As we see from Mabeys example,  it was
not  that  easy. No  need to worry too
much though,  just start assembler and
get to work ;) It seems  that there is
a lack  of  motivation  here.  We have
always been told  that  coders are the
laziest people in the whole scene, and
that  you  have  to  beg or even force
them to work!  Can you agree with that
opinion, or maybe  it is  a bit wrong?

               »CL4:Diamond:

»CL6:Hey, you have  exaggerated  a bit with
the "forcing to work". I cannot  speak
for others, but I must admit that I am
a bit lazy.

                »CL4:Mavey:

»CL7:I  do  not  know  every  coder  in the
scene, but  I  think  I  can announce:
I do not consider  myself as  being  a
lazy  person, and I have been spending
an enormous amount of time and work on
coding,   especially     during    the
development   of  "Gush"  and  "Gift",
where I really had to think hard about
how I could  put  as much  as possible
into 64 kilobytes. :)  I  do  not feel
offended  by  that  opinion, because I
know that  my group mates are sure, at
least  I  hope  so :), that  I  am not
lazy.  Of  course,  sometimes  it  has
happened  that  I  have  not  made the
things that I  had promised, but there
are   always  various  reasons.  Maybe
sometimes  it  comes  from  a  lack of
motivation,  but  I try to reduce this
in order for it to happen as seldom as
possible.

»CL1:Thank God  for that!  Thanks  to  both
Maveys  and  Diamonds activity, we are
able  to   see  great  productions  as
"Gift", "Gush", and "Optional"!  Could
the   scene   exist   without  coders?

               »CL4:Diamond:

»CL6:Of  course!  However,  it  would exist
without demos and intros. It would  be
a   bit   strange,    would   it  not?


                »CL4:Mavey:

»CL7:NO, for sure, and  it  is  not because
I  am  a coder. It is obvious that the
demo and  intro  compos  are  the most
important  compos   on   every  party.
Suppose  there  were  no coders?  Yes,
there would still be gfx, music  etc.,
but it is  not  enough. That  is why I
think we  cannot exist without coders.
Maybe  the  scene   would  exist,  but
something  would   be   missing  then.

»CL1:Well, it is hard to disagree with your
words! Okay, but do  coders  sometimes
feel a  lack  of gratification towards
their work?  It  is  clear  that  they
would  earn  a   whole   lot  more  in
commercial    programming,   even   if
compared  to  the  prizes for  winning
a  demo   compo   on   copy   parties.

                »CL4:Mavey:

»CL7:I can honestly say  no. Sure,  one can
get   much   more  cash   when   doing
commercial  platform programs,  we all
know that, but  it  is not about money
here.  First, I must ask myself, why I
am part of the scene. I  do  not do it
for the  money, but  for  the pleasure
and  satisfaction  it   brings  me.  I
simply  like it. Of course, it is nice
if  you   go  to  a   party   and  win
something, but  that  is  not what the
scene is about! Besides, I also use my
coding skills  to  write programs in C
for  some  people's  exams,  and  earn
money  that  way - money  is essential
for everyone. Therefore, this  problem
does  surely  not exist on my part. If
it  did, I  would  make demos, because
the  prizes  in  the  demo  compos are
higher than those in the intro compos.

»CL1:What does the second Potion coder have
to say about this?

               »CL4:Diamond:

»CL6:I must admit that I have not made that
many  scene productions. Of course, it
would be  nice  to  receive  money for
intros  or  demos,  but   since  party
organizers are  not rich people, it is
rather   impossible,    and   I   have
therefore  started  to  earn  money by
making  "commercial" programs, as  you
called them.

»CL1:Dear readers,   maybe   you   are  now
wondering what the "toolbox" of a good
coder  looks  like? Which  software he
uses,  which  Amiga  configuration  he
uses and where he  finds ideas for new
effects? For many years, I  have asked
myself which  is  the  more difficult,
inventing a new  effect  or making it?

               »CL4:Diamond:

»CL6:It depends. Sometimes  you  can invent
something that is both new and easy to
do at the same time. Other times it is
different. The only limitation  I know
is your time.




                »CL4:Mavey:

»CL7:I am  going  to  be honest. Once, both
were things I  just could not  do, but
as time passed  by, I found out that I
would manage. At  that  time,  it  was
much harder to make  something than to
invent it. I have had  numerous ideas,
but  no  ability  to  make  them real.
However, after much  training, I think
I got used to asm coding, so now it is
much   more   difficult    to   invent
something     completely   innovative,
different  from everything else,  than
it is to make  it. Let us  use our new
raytracing  engine   as   an  example. 
For me  this  was  very  easy to code.
The difficult thing was  to invent how
it should look, how the objects should
be, etc.  it  is  the same  if we talk
about  calculated  music,  once it was
pure black magic and now  I simply sit
down and re-write samples to assembly.

»CL1:Which tools do you use?

               »CL4:Diamond:

»CL6:I use PhxAss, PowerASM, vbcc, gcc, Asm
and my private assembler,  which  will
hopefully  be  finished some day. When
this happens  I  will  share  it  with
others.

                »CL4:Mavey:

»CL7:Recently PowerASM. I am really waiting
for the assembler  Diamond is  writing
(I wonder when he will finally  finish
those executables) and  sometimes a  C
compiler.   (GCC,  StormC,  etc.)   In
addition, I often use  Personal  Paint
and  ArtPRO.  I   also  like  to   use
LightWave and I think that is all. Oh,
of course, I  also  use AsmPro, but it
is rather seldom.

»CL1:Since  more  powerful  Amigas has been
born,  one  sees  a  tendency  to  use
hi-level programming languages, mainly
C and similar, to make demos and other
scene productions. If we use "Metatag"
by Floppy as an example,  the  authors
wrote that  almost 90% of the code had
been made in C. Therefore; it is worth
asking if C is  more  comfortable  and
effective  to  write in than assembly?



                »CL4:Mavey:

»CL7:Yes, but please notice that it is demo
by  Mawi! As far  as  I  know the main
loops  and  procedures  are written in
assembly, and I am convinced that this
code   is  the  most  executed   part.
Therefore, in  this case  it  makes no
big difference, whether you choose one
language or another. Because my school
use C,  I  was  forced  to  learn that
language (and  it  is great to impress
Mr.  Professor).  I  am  going  to  be
honest;  it  is  a  language, which is
very comfortable and fast to write in,
but there is still  one  little thing:
optimalisations!  When  we talk  about
the  68k  family,  optimalisation   in
assembly  gives  you  very  much.  For
instance,  one  sample from our "Gift"
intro  had  been  generating for about
20 seconds  when  we wrote it in C and
only 2 seconds when we  re-wrote it to
pure  asm.  Sadly,  on   PowerPC   the
difference is not that big, because of
the  great  number  of registers. Many
registers give more  capability to the
compiler, so  code  in  C  is not that
much  faster  than  assembly code, but
the difference is still noticeable. In
several  cases  where   one   can  use
specific  asm  tricks,  C  is  out  of
question.  Quite  often,  I  make  the
invented  effects  in C first to check
it out and see how it looks,  then set
the best parameters and re-write it to
assembly. That is  why assembly, in my
opinion, is better to make demos,  and
when  talking  about intros, I have no
doubts.
»CL1:After a series of winning intros  from
Potion,  I  have   no  doubts  either!
Remember how making demos in something
other  than  assembly  was  incredible
just a few years back. Do you remember
the fuss around Braindead (later Aivo)
from  Mellow  Chips, when he told that
most of "Dim" was coded using Amos? If
anyone cannot believe it, I advise you
to  check  out  some old "ROM" issues.
When  talking  about  C, Maveys  group
collectively  agreed  with  his words.

               »CL4:Diamond:

»CL6:For sure, programming in C is  faster.
On the other hand,  assembly  language
gives you  more control of everything.
That is why using  asm and C  combined
is  a   wise    decision.   The   most
time-consuming  pieces  of   code  are
written in assembly  and  the  rest is
written  in C. It  is very comfortable
for the  coder, and then  it is faster
to develop  a demo.  In  addition, the
code   is  much   easier   to  modify.

»CL1:Nothing  to  add! I am only wondering,
if  this  piece  of  advice  from  the
coders of Potion  will push someone to
start  doing  things  in assembly? The
scene needs new faces and I think that
every coder,  even medium-talented, is
as precious  as gold! Is  it  possible
that  some so-called "scene observers"
get a little kick  today  and begin to
code? Maybe one of  the  young  coders
will start to work  harder and be more
effective, or maybe someone, who would
like to start coding, gets  an impulse
to start working? How should he start?
What  advise  would  Mavey and Diamond
give  to  all  those  freaks  dreaming
about   making    Amiga   productions?

               »CL4:Diamond:

»CL6:Wow that  is  hard to say! In a normal
situation,  I  would   recommend  some
books, but the  problem  is that there
are   no   books   about  Amiga!  From
Motorola's website  you  can  download
books about PPC  and 68k CPU's in  PDF
format, but that is not for beginners,
for sure! If  someone  would  like  to
code they  should  check  the archives
on Aminet, where  they  can  find some
examples there.  Also,  mailing  lists
like  the  Polish  "adevpl" and  maybe
establish  contact with  someone,  who
knows  about coding. If  someone wants
to learn pure C/C++,  there  are  tons
of   books    in    every   bookstore.

                »CL4:Mavey:

»CL7:Do  not  content yourself with dreams,
but find out what  your abilities are.
At first it  is always hard, but later
it is great. I remember, in 1998  when
I still had my A600 , I used  to watch
"Superautodrome" at  Sators place, and
I was  excited  like hell! I  remember
when  I started "United"  by Floppy on
my A1200, at  that  time  I  was  even
afraid to dream that some  day I would
make  something  similar.  Now  it  is
clear that dreams do  come  true and I
wish that for all  the  beginners  out
there! Do  not  stop, do nice  things,
but please remember that you are still
young and  that  some  things  are not
worth  losing  from  spending all your
time with the computer!



       »PIC:3.iff»
