
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                                 Dead Or Alive?
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     Written by »CL5:Sagrael »CL6:of »CL5:Appendix »CL6:& »CL5:Taboo

»CL1:Many of  you  are maybe thinking  what
our  Scene   is  about.  Some  Western
sceners  think  that  it  is dead, the
others that it  is dying right now. »CL7:It
is interesting - are there any people,
who can  truly  say  that the scene is
still alive  and  in a good condition?»CL1:
I am  thinking   of   what   could  be
synonymous of  the death of the scene,
maybe  totally  absence   of  involved
people,  deficiency  of good products,
and  deficiency  in  activity  when it
comes to copy-parties.  Sure, those  3







main  allegations  are true,  but seen
from  the  other  side  we can make an
opinion  from  these facts saying that
it is not  so bad! »CL6:A few  people still
exist  who  want  to  do   and  create
something  and   still   a   group  of
"peepers" for  whom  these productions
are made.»CL1:  Finally,   they    are  the
majority  and  they  decide,  in  many
ways,  the  destiny  of  the demos and
intros  on copy-parties and  later  on
the charts. Demos? Mags? Modules? They
are  still  creating  and what is more
important, many  people  have plans to
continue   to    create    them!   And
copy-parties? In fact, there  are less
and  less  of  them. When compared  to
just a  few  years ago, no one can now
be sure  that  there  will even be one
scene-party  within  a year!   »CL7:We  are
still  not  sure about when there will
be another Satellite  edition  and the
announced    party     in    Trzcianka
(Symphony)  is  not   an   Amigas-only
party.»CL1:  Recapitulated, it  looks  like
the  scene  is  still  alive  and will
remain in the nearest time. So why are
there  still  a  group  of  people who
think  that  the  scene  was  dead two
years ago?  Ha,  and   here   is   the
significant part, because  what is the
beginning of the scenes fall for some,
could be its definite end  for others!
So, what do I understand  as a  "Scene
episode"? For  me  this  is  a  period
between   2    incidents   (of  course
scenowymi!).  For  example,  the  last
demo  from  Ecs  and  the  first  from
Aga marked the beginning of an episode
which ended with  the first demos from
Aga-chipset + Fast  memory! Of course,
the   delimitation  is   here   rather
unstable. Therefore, one  could  think
that  the  death  of  the scene is its
birth! Birth?  In  fact,  if  you  can
remember the  history of the scene you
know  that  everything   started  with
crackers!  »CL8:The  crackers  created  the
first  groups   and   began   to  make
products for the  scene!»CL1: Of course, at
first it was only  small intros before
a main  program  to  inform  the buyer
about  which  group  had  cracked  the
game or  program.   Later, specialists
like  today's  coders  or  graphicians
appeared  in  the groups. However, for
those connected to  the "crack" stream
the further  division  of the legal or
illegal scene  could mean the death of
the previous!

              »PIC:4.iff»








»CL8:Scoopex' "Mental Hangover" also marked
the  beginning  and  end   of   a  new
episode.»CL1:  After  this,  they  began to
make designs  for demos, which in fact
was the  beginning of a completely new
chapter in  the  history of the scene.

Meanwhile, others  would  say that the
end  of  the  scene  occurred when the
first  Aga  demo  with   Fast   memory
appeared!  This  was  in  1984 and the
entire  scene  community  was in shock
when  Virtual  Dreams  kicked them out
with their  wonderful "Love",  perhaps
the last great  demo for "naked" Amiga
1200? followed by "Switchback", "Droll
This",  and  "Breath  Taker"!   Damage
amazed the Polish audience by creating
the  very  memory-powerful  "Noxzema".
Later  everything  is  very  easy, the
best demos need  Fast Memory and so do
we. "O30 required!"

»CL6:Then the moment appeared where  it was
all about "upgrade tendencies!" as the
Western people say.  Exactly the thing
that Fishwave, Wade, Sane  & others do
not like.»CL1: There is  only one  thing to
say:  hardware  requirements. A faster
processor, more MHz, more memory, more
disc-space! If you  do  not have this,
you do not  get  to see demos, intros,
and read mags! My dear reader, at that
moment you have to declare whether you
support the "real demos" without  much
memory or you think  that it is better
do  add  more  mips,  MBs  or  GBs?  I
believe   that   there  are  different
opinions in this matter. »CL8:I  think  one
should  agree   with the Western scene
people  who   are   against   all  the
upgrades.»CL1:  The  information technology
moves forward very rapidly,  providing
us  with  new  technological  ideas on
soft-  &  hardware.  However, is  this
necessary for our scene? Maybe we need
to say STOP, and make  everyone have a
standard  configuration  when creating
scene  products. Perhaps  that  moment
should  have  been  in the time of the
A500!  By the way,  someone  mentioned
that  the  standard  for  the  Western
scene is 030/50 +  16MB  memory.  Does
the scene have to be running wild like
the  fucking  PC  and   the  worldwide
technological revolution? On the other
hand, maybe it should  remain an oasis
of  peace  &  quiet? Some smart people
could  see  the same situation as with
the C-64. Why  should  we  not be like
them? We could say STOP in our current
scene  situation,  STOP  to  the  huge
configurations, space on  HD and 32 MB
memory,   multichannel  &  other shit!

»CL7:However, what for Wade is a reasonable
stagnation could be a total limitation
for someone else.»CL1: Was it impossible to
use   all   available  power   of  Ecs
(MC68000) and later Aga (MC68020)? Was
there  not  enough  power  in  the 68k
processors? Did the scene really  need
PPC?  Do  we,  like the other computer
worlds, need graphic cards  and 24 bit
colours?  »CL7:Would  it  be  impossible to
create   in    less    then    800x600
distribution? Does DigiBoosters module
need  to  have   16  channels?»CL1:   Those
questions  could  be asked  eternally,
and why? We, the Amiga fans and  scene
people, lost that moment.  We went the
same way as our PC friends, which from
the beginning rushed for "more power".
If you  agree  that  the  scene  needs
these  upgrades, (I  am sure there are
some people!) then for what reason? So
you  can  be "on the top" permanently,
so  you  can  keep  on  investing  and
changing   the   hardware,   if   even
possible? You  have  created some nice
effects in your  mind, but it does not
work  with  060/50, so what to do? Use
PPC 200Mhz + 040/25, and why  not? You
need 24  bits?  No problem, BVision or
VooDoo3 on PCI slot and fuck! You have
an idea on how  to make a design for a
demo,  you  write it, but in order for
it to work you need "100MB FREE  SPACE
ON YOUR  HD"! Everything is  nice  and
beautiful,  but  one question remains;
where do  we  draw  the line? I do not
want  to  copy  my  opinions  from the
other  article  I wrote, but where are
we going with this?

»CL8:I  am  slowly  beginning to understand
Wade,  Fishwave, & company. Maybe they
understood something  that we  did not
comprehend  in  our   race   for  more
powerful  machines!»CL1:  It  is  not  just
about that the Amiga scene should only
create with 030 without  multichannels
and DSP  effects. No,  the  problem is
that  in  our  marathon  we  lost  the
character  of  the scene! »CL7:The  slogans
from    the    past,     "friendship",
"friendly",  and  "challenge", seem to
be worthless nowadays where  it is all
about MHz.»CL1: That  scene  has flown away
and THEY know it....

What  lies  in  the  future?  Will the
slogan, "»CL8:He  who  stays  in  one place
moves backwards!»CL1:" remain as  a rule in
the present scene? Is it  possible for
us to preserve parts of the old Scene,
and do we need to?


  »CLB:   You should answer to yourself

        »PIC:3.iff»
