
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                              Ever felt Forgotten?
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Written By »CL5:Darkus »CL6:of »CL5:IRIS

                                  »CL8:Introduction

»CL1:One must  admit  to  falling  somewhat
behind  with  most developments within
the recent months of scene activities.
However,  I  was  compelled  to,  once
again, expressing my opinions in front
of my aged Amiga. »CL7:With  the release of
Jurassic Pack #8, courtesy  of  Ghandy
and  Zito  of  Darkage,  appeared  the
Devotion source code I once considered
my  own.»CL1: It  felt  like  I   had  seen
someone dating  an old girlfriend. You









know that feeling? The feeling she has
gotten over you, or at  least with her
present  company  has forgot all about
you? This feeling has provided me with
the  motivation  to  write  what  your
reading.

             »CL8:What of JP#8?

»CL1:Before I express the main point behind
the article,  I  would  like to give a
few  comments  on  the  issue  itself.
Firstly, one  has  to  admit  it was a
shock  to  see  a  new  issue  of  the
magazine hit our shelves.  »CL8:Well, maybe
not that  much  since  we  know Ghandy
(Mister  Reliable)   was   behind  it.»CL1:
Anyway,   swiftly    moving   on,  the
magazine itself was well presented. It
had interesting title  pictures by the
very talented  Noogman and Bridgeclaw.
The  main  screen  consisting of  menu
panels   by   Budgie   was   a  slight
disappointment  after  the  level  one
just  witnessed   through   the  title
screens. It  appears  the artist spent
considerable more  time  on the bottom
panel in  comparison  to  the  heading
panel.


Commenting on this fairly  feels  that
much  harder  probably  because  I  am
subconsciously   comparing  it  to  my
former  magazine  Devotion. Therefore,
to the  team   behind  this  issue,  I
apologise  if  I  occasionally sound a
little harsh. Again, moving on, I have
to admit that the  content of articles
gives me  mixed  feelings. On one hand
we have  interviews  with such legends
as Mop  and  Scorpik.  »CL7:Then   we  have
articles such as "12 Questions to God"
composed by Gone, which  are not worth
the bytes  they  take  up on your hard
drive.»CL1: My  general  opinion  is one of
disappointment.  Unknown  sceners, who
seem  to  be  writing  a  load  of low
quality  articles,  write  a number of
articles,  which  hold  little  to  no
interest.

       »CL8: The Main Disappointment

»CL1:Heading  towards  the   point   of  my
article, one does feel  rather sad and
disconnected from  the scene. With the
release  of  JP#8  using  the Devotion
source code, I  wondered what would be
said of me. It seems  not a lot, which
is fine. »CL7:The  problem arose when I was
confronted  with  the credits article.
Nowhere was my name to be found.»CL1: What?
You  are  thinking  why I  deserve any
credit,  so  I  will  tell  you why. I
spent  many,  many  hours  working  on
Devotion #1,  and  I  do  not mean the
articles.  »CL6:Drareg  of  Ozone  in  fact
originally coded  the entire magazine.»CL1:
Where  did  he  get  his  designs  and
motivation? From me. I spent hours and
days  on  IRC  and  CED  designing and
organising the  coding  and release of
the  magazine.   Only  for  Drareg  to
discover  he  did not have the time to
pursue  the  project  any  further. At
this  stage,  one  had  to start over,
hence   Mr.Tickle's   involvement   as
coder. »CL8:Again, I spent hours  and hours
designing   and   communicating   with
Mr.Tickle to  ensure that the magazine
engine  was  finished and how I wanted
it.»CL1:  I  spent  much  time  finding  an
artist  to  draw my panels, fonts, and
clip-arts.   I    even    spent   time
colorizing the fonts and designing the
layouts of the articles.

What  did  I find in JP#8? That infact
the  magazine  had  remained the EXACT
same, the layout  of the articles, the
font  colours,  the  design, and  even
some of the  articles themselves. Then
to discover one  was  not credited for
all  those  hours  slaving  is  a real
disappointment. Have I been completely
ignored? »CL8:Well,  I  think it is fair to
say that the JP team can either change
the  magazine  design,  article layout
and font colours or they can credit me
for my hard work.»CL1: After all, they must
like it  enough  to use it, so why not
do the right thing and credit  for it?
What do you think?











      »PIC:3.iff»
