
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                                   King Kempy
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Written by »CL5:Sane »CL5:of »CL5:Haujobb

»CL1:Devotion#2 was not only  infected with
viruses,  it   was  also  loaded  with
extremely  provocative   articles.  No
matter  how  hard  Sceners   tried  to
ignore us and tried to spite us by not
saying nor writing  anything about the
contents of Devotion#2, »CL8: at some point
you  guys  could  not  cope  with  the
stress  of  keeping  your  mouths shut
anymore.»CL1:

Of  all  the  Sceners  who  reacted on
Devotion#2, Polish Kempy of  Veezya is







the  king. »CL7:Kempys reaction  was by far
the best reaction I got and after all;»CL1:
it all started with  his mail, which I
got hold  of  through Wade. I received
Kempys  mail  dated  July  26th  2001,
which  as  said  was  very interesting
though a  little  bit  vague to me. Of
course, you have  no  idea  what  I am
writing  about  right now, so I better
print   that  specific   mail   first.

"a little  piece  of  comment  from my
(ed: Kempy) side. yes you're right - I
have "devotion"#2   on  my  mind  now.
especially  sane's  article  "scene is
dead" - I agree  with  it  in  100%...
but  only  if  we  replace all "scene"
words with "sane's  brain"  sentences.
oh yes, then this article will be 100%
right  I think!   that's all, bye  for
now."

Of course, I was ecstatic about Kempys
mail! »CL8:I was very happy because someone
had  actually  analysed Devotion#2 and
had even reacted on one of my articles
("The Scene is dead!").»CL1:  Most  Sceners
just  quickly read  (or  do  not  even
bother  to read!)  and  then   try  to
forget  my  articles  again as fast as
they possibly can.  Kempy  got  out of
his lazy chair, typed  a reaction, and
sent it to Wade. I wondered why he had
not  sent  the  mail to my address ...
After all; my address was also present
in Devotion#2, but that minor  setdown
could not ruin my manic state of mind.

          »PIC:3.iff»











»CL7:In addition, Kempy showed  he actually
used  his  brain  unlike   most  other
Sceners.»CL1: Kempy proved his I.Q. did not
match  his  shoe-size   but   was  far
larger. Even  though  his  use  of the
English language and  grammar was Poor
with  a  capital "P" on  the  scale of
poorness, he managed to speak out what
he thought and basically told me I was
a  lamer  with  lame  thoughts. Great!

»CL6:However,  Kempy  then  ruined his fine
appearance  and  spoiled  the surprise
act.»CL1: After the somewhat vague but very
strong words  in  the body of his mail
there  came  a "P.S."   It    was   an
anti-climax  of  unknown  measures. It
was  like  your  girlfriend who turned
the  television  set off just when the
Baywatch girls started running. It was
like your mother who switched off your
Playstation  2  just  when   you  were
winning with  Gran  Turismo 3.  Again,
you   do  not  understand  what  I  am
writing  about  so  I better print the
"P.S." of Kempy first.

»CL8:"p.s.  btw, is  this  article (ed "The
Scene is dead!") a  cheap  provocation
only?  all  I  can  say  it  was  very
childish to publish it. Nothing more."»CL1:

Why  does  Kempy  doubt  whether  this
article  was  written  to  provoke the
readers? He showed his intelligence by
telling me  how  lame I was by writing
the specific story. »CL7:Now  he acts plain
stupid   by    asking   a   completely
redundant  question.»CL1:  Even  in grammar
school, you  were  taught not to raise
redundant issues, Kempy. OF  COURSE, I
mainly  wrote  this article to provoke
the readers.
I do think  the  Scene is not so great
anymore  compared to what it once was,
but of  course, I do  not REALLY think
the Scene is  actually dead. What good
would it do me when I was producing 13
articles   for   a    magazine,  which
supports a supposedly dead Scene? Ever
heard  of   sarcasm,   criticism,  and
irony? »CL6:I  tried  to  set  the  silent,
dull, and  boring  magazine-scene into
the next gear.»CL1: Together  with Wade,  I
tried to set the mag-scene into motion
again. »CL7:We tried to motivate writers to
write  articles. I  hope we succeeded.
Well, when  I  read  issue  43 of  The
Official Eurochart I knew we did.»CL1: That
is another story  and does not make up
for my gigantic  loss. King  Kempy was
slain by his own "P.S.". What a shame.

To  end  the  article  I should stress
once more  that  I  of  course did not
only  try  to provoke  the readers and
fellow  Sceners  by writing an article
called "The Scene is dead!" Certainly,
it was  not  cheap as it cost me a few
hours  and  some  sweat  to  write the
mentioned  article.  »CL8:Anyway,  the late
King Kempy was  right in many a way as
the  article  was   mainly   meant  to
provoke  people  so they would finally
start to  write again.»CL1: I really do not
care whether  people  disagree with me
or  even  seriously  dislike me. All I
care for is to  make people engage the
Scene  again  as  I  do love the Scene
very, very much.
