
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                             Lamers - We Need Them
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Written by »CL5:Adonis »CL6:of »CL5:IRIS

»CL1:What  is  a lamer? A lamer  is one who
plays games all the time,  downloading
porno movies  on his 2 Mbit connection
while he is  playing. None of  us have
problems  with   that,  not   at  all.
»CL7:However, if  these  lamers   dare   to
attend  one  of  these  awesome  scene
parties»CL1: and  many of them even dare to
bring along  their fancy computers and
hook up  to  the local network then we
have  problems with it. When they have
connected all they  need  to  connect,
then  the  really  lame  part  begins.







They start  one of these "games" (Ouch
that was hard to get over my lips) and
they have already started to download,
they are not  stupid, they  know  that
they might as well start the download,
so  that  they  do not have to look at
the  bar  while it is getting to 100%.

»CL8:The most incredible thing is that they
do  not  even  care  if  us real elite
sceners  walk  by  and  yell lamers or
porno  leechers.»CL1:   They   just   start
another  download  and  load   another
game.  They  have  no  respect for  us
sceners.

What should we do next?  »CL7:Take  one  of
these  small  pathetic  lamers outside
and kick  him until he does  not  move
anymore?»CL1: We should have  a row so that
every cool scener could get a hit. Not
all  sceners  of course,  we will take
the top 20's  from  Eurochart, so that
only  the "good" sceners  get a chance
to kick  the little lamer. Damn, do we
not just hate those guys?
»PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»






I  know  that  I  have chosen to write
some  really  harsh  things about  the
so-called  lamers, but I guess that it
is the  only  way to get trough to you
guys.   You  are   getting   old   and
stubborn, and sometimes you have to be
kicked to see the problems.

»CL8:Now, here comes  what this article  is
really  about.»CL1:  I  often    hear   the
so-called  sceners  laugh  and bug the
so-called   lamers.   They   do    not
understand them, because  they are not
interested in the  same things as they
are. Why not download the modules from
Muffler,  Revisq,  or  Ganja,  instead
of   MP3's   of   a   screaming Pamela
Anderson while sucking someone's penis
(»CL7:I know that  it can be hard to scream
while  doing  this»CL1:) :) or  they  might
even  prefer to  download movies  with
a midget taking two  guys from behind.
They  should  rather download Relic or
Perfect Circle.

»CL8:Instead of shaking your head of those,
not  even  wannabe's,  why do you  not
seek contact with them?»CL1: I am sure that
you have been  reading many interviews
with  some  well-known  sceners.  They
mainly have one  thing in common: they
all  started   out  by   playing   and
discovered  the  magic  of  the  scene
atmosphere  later.  Could  it  be that
this  is  what  the  lamers  are doing
right now? »CL6:Sure, they might stick with
their PC's  and turn their back on the
real  machine,  but  is  this  not  to
prefer   instead   of   loosing   them
completely?»CL1:  I  know  that many of you
dislike PC, but  how many can say that
they do not have a PC  at home and how
many of  you  can  say that you do not
use them  for  your  scene activities?
Not many I guess.

»CL7:You do not gain anything by being such
an  asshole  to   the    new  possible
sceners.»CL1: I  am  not  saying  that  you
should  love  them, but why  not leave
them alone and then some of them might
even get  interested  in the scene. At
present, they do not  have a chance to
have a look at the scene we have these
days  except  if  they  are  a  little
Kierownik, Mavey, or  Kalms,  who  can
compete with this  from the beginning?
My  guess  is  that  this is not many.


In fact, this  is  what  we  do and we
actually need those  so-called  lamers
and we  therefore have  to  stop  this
arrogant  behaviour  now, and  if  not
work with  them,  then  at  least stop
bugging them. »CLA:They are  our future and
we need them. »CL7:You may  think it is sad
but  that  is  how it is, so  face it,
"Sceners".»CL1:


         »PIC:5.iff»
