
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                                Pure Objectivity                                
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Written by »CL5:Wade »CL6:of»CL5: Haujobb

»CL1:What drives a person to write? Why, in
a world   cluttered  with    so   many
entertaining diversions,»CL8: would anybody
choose  to  spend  their  free time in
front of a  characterless text editor,
typewriter   or   notepad,    enduring
headaches,  cramps   and  frustration?»CL1:

To share an opinion, a feeling,   or a
shimmer  of wisdom, to  educate and to
influence  the   thoughts   of  others
- these   are  the  aspirations  of  a
devoted  writer  and  these  are   the







reasons he does what he does.
Therefore,  the  recurring  suggestion
that  disk-magazine   editors   should
refrain from  subjective writing is, I
consider,  quite  absurd.  Why  should
editors  cease  to think?  Why  should
they  not  express themselves, and why
would anybody choose to  write if they
must do so objectively?

»CL7:Objective   writing  is  a  mechanical
process  of  recording   or   reciting
facts,  uncoloured   by   emotion   or
thought.»CL1:   An     objective    writer,
therefore, is a poor one, lost  in the
wrong profession.

»CL8:The  art  of reviewing, in particular,
is the cause  of  many  debates within
the  scene.»CL1:  Negative   reviewers  are
constantly   accused   of  being  "too
subjective"    or   "too  opinionated"
- despite  the  fact  that   there  is
actually no such thing as an objective
review. Reviews are supposed to convey
opinions, raise discussions, and rouse
the readers mind. No rule demands that
we  must  agree  with  the  reviewer's
opinions,  and  there  is  nothing  to
prevent us from disputing their views.

Our entire lives, our beliefs, and our
actions are all  the result of outside
influences. Each  and  every one of us
has   been  (and   continue   to   be)
manipulated   by    subjective   words
- political, religious,  or otherwise.
What  is  more, the  sources we  trust
most as  being  unbiased are often the
prime   culprits    of    manipulative
writing.  It  is   true    that   even
newspapers  aim  to sway our judgement
in  one  direction  or   another.  »CL7:The
"facts"  we   read  and    hear   from
journalists  are   contaminated   with
bureaucratic  flattery  and  political
correctness;»CL1: details  are  omitted and
the truth is modified to appeal to the
mainstream audience.

Subjectivity  is not always obvious at
a glance.   More  often  than  not,  a
writers view on a subject is expressed
through  his  phrasing  and structure,
and by  the  elements  he  chooses  to
withhold  and  sometimes, our personal
judgment sneaks into our words without
us realizing.

»CL8:Even  those  writers  who claim to  be
completely   objective   are   usually
guilty    of      using     subjective
expressions,  such  as "good", "nice",
"I enjoyed", "I think", and "bad".»CL1: The
fact  that  they  are weak expressions
does  not  make  them less subjective.

Here  are   some   examples,  randomly
selected from three different articles
by three different editors:

"Nexus 7  is  a  special  demo in many
ways. First, because  it  has about no
gfx  at  all, second,  because  it got
quite  many  fantastic  routines,  and
third, because of all those great part
links.  And  in  addition  to this the
demo  simply  has a very nice design."
- »CL7:Zerox/Gods.

»CL1:"It is a demo with good and never seen
before effects, a fantastic atmosphere
and .."
- »CL7:Ghandy, talking about Scraps if
                    Beings by Mankind.

»CL1:"Otherwise it is obvious who will have
the highest rankings the coming years.
How boring.."
- »CL7:Magic, questioning the ethics of big
          groups.

»CL1:In  the  first example,  Zerox  states
that Nexus 7 is "special", that it has
many  "fantastic  routines"  and "nice
design". According  to whom? According
to Zerox,  of course.  Ghandy uses the
adjectives  "good"   and   "fantastic"
which  are  positive  expressions, and
entirely  subjective.  »CL8:Magic,  on  the
other hand, is  more  open  with   his
views  with  the phrase  "How boring".»CL1:
While  many  readers  might well agree
with  Magic  on  this account, this is
not a fact; it is an opinion.

»CL7:Expressing your views is not wrong; it
is  natural.  We are individuals, each
with  our  own   unique    views   and
thoughts.»CL1:  Wars  have  been fought and
lives have  been  lost for this right.
Why should anyone  wish to repress it?






      »PIC:3.iff»
