ªCL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ªCL0:                      The (Not So) Reliable Swapper Chart
ªCL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Written by ªCL5:Darkhawk ªCL6:of ªCL5:IRIS

ªCL1:Ahh yes, sadness. despair.. emptiness.
Feelings  of  vast    desolation   and
dejectedness  overcome  me. In  other,
and more plain words. Lack of support!
Yes, I am partly responsible for this,
naturally, as the main editor it is my
task  to  secure  support by  whatever
means possible, and I  neglected to do
that this time. Instead,  ªCL8:I  foolishly
waited for support to come, but no, no
support  came (no letters came either,
which might explain the first).ªCL1:  And I
noticed this  too  late  (like.. 1 day
before I have  to finish all articles,






ehr).. In  the end, I did  get letters
back,  swapping  was  not   completely
dead,  but  sadly,  no  one  had  any
recommendations for me..

ªCL7:So, what to do? Well, I might write an
article about the current state of the
swapping scene insteadªCL1: (I sent out the
EC43 as the last thing I did, and now,
5  months  later,  I  have   gotten  5
replies to my 21 sent letters. This is
the strongest indication I  have  ever
had about  the  swapping  scene  being
wrecked), but no! (Ahh,  you  feared I
would, did you not?) I  already  wrote
such an article for DISC #12, although
if I wrote it now, it would not  be as
positive as that one. Instead, ªCL8:I  will
write  about   the  5  swappers I swap
with, who  ARE  infact  reliable,ªCL1: that
means, I will list those who  wrote me
back, and whom I can count on. I might
even be cruel, and list some  of those
who did not  answer back, but  let  us
see.. Bear in mind that this  means it
is only I, who rate these swappers and
no one else.
ªPIC:4.iffª             ªPIC:4.iffª             ªPIC:4.iffª






              ªCL4:Angeldust

ªCL1:Yes, he is reliable  and  writes  long
letters. That is still  true, although
his 'delay'  gets  longer  than in the
past, which  is  worrying . However, I
still have faith in Angeldust,  he  is
not likely to quit, so he is still one
of those solid rocks you can count on.

 ªCL6:            Markus Nimtz
           Noellestraﬂe 22
           29646 Bispingen
               Germany

              ªCL4:  Kempy

ªCL1:Kempy is steady and writes  good, long
letters too. He  also  delayed  a  bit
before answering me this  time though.
This, along  with  him  getting  a bit
more sad about the  lack of letters he
gets, does not bode  well either,  but
well, he is still active and  engaged.
He, like the rest  of us,  just  needs
more activity (=letters) to  hit  him,
so write him if you  want  a  reliable
and interesting contact.

 ªCL6:         Pshemo Kowalkczyk
           Kopernika 13/14
           34-100 Wadowice
                Poland

              ªCL4:  Makak

ªCL1:Makak  is   friendly,    writes   long
letters, and is also one of the faster
repliers usually. This came true  this
time also, him being  the  second  one
who replied to my last letter. Well, a
reply time  of  2  months  is the same
speed as I have (when I am fast, ehr),
but it  is  the  standard  speed  now.
Makak  is  certainly  a  cool swapper,
whom everyone should be in touch with.

    ªCL6:        Maciej Nowicki
          Slonecznikowa 5/7
           15-669 Bialystok
                Poland


             ªCL4: Powerslave

ªCL1:He has been the fastest of my contacts
for 3 or more years, and  very  steady
too, although  the  latest letter from
him was somewhat slow in coming. I  am
not too worried though, as he has been
very fast  and  steady  otherwise, and
every  now  and then, we are all (some
of us  most  of  the  time, eh) a  bit
delayed. Powerslave has  been swapping
since 1991,  so  he   has   some  good
credentials, would you not say?

    ªCL6:             Nick
            37 Hayfell Ave
              Heron Hill
                Kendal
           Cumbria LA9 7JH
               England

              ªCL4:  Zerox

ªCL1:Here  we  have  one  who  sends me 2-3
letters every time I send him 1. Apart
from giving me a bad  conscience, this
also shows how engaged  and  active he
is, since he  started  swapping again.
He is also the   only one ever to have
sent me a 400kb+ letter (yes! In reply
to my poor 200kb letter.. Now you know
why the  two  of  us  do not release 4
mags each extra ,  we are busy writing
letters, ehehe),  and   well,   he  is
definitely worth  writing a letter to,
but since I think he  wants to give up
swapping again, it is probably not the
time to write  him, sadly.  Therefore,
I will just have to tell you all, now,
that  ªCL8:Zerox  is   the  best   swapping
contact  I  have  ever  had  (we  have
swapped    steadily     without    any
interruption  since  1994,ªCL1:  after all,
that is some years), and well, without
contacts such as him, I am not  sure I
would still continue to  swap.  So,  a
special note of thanks  and respect to
you Frode!

In addition, I got something  as  rare
as a contact  letter  the  other  day!
Hooray, I was pretty happy, and it was
of a nice length too. It was Corrector
from dpt+eng+rad+attic+void (man, do I
hate  people  being  in  more than one
group, but that is  another old story,
hehe) who sent it, and hey! You can be
sure to get a  reply,  hopefully  with
this mag included. Naturally, I cannot
comment  on   Corrector's  reliability
yet, but these days, sending a contact
letter counts for much too!

ªCL8:Roover/Nah-Kolor dropped swapping  and
the scene, too bad, he  made  it  into
the  first  issue   of   the  Reliable
Swapper chart,ªCL1: but when  I  sent him a
contact letter, I got only  silence in
return. Seems like  he  had  lost  his
motivation already back then.

ªCL7:Two others who seem to have lost their
swapping  motivation  are   Evan   and
Punisher.ªCL1: I have  not  heard from Evan
since  March  I  think,  and  although
Punisher  is  still  around I have not
received  a   letter  from  him  since
February (ok ok, I  did not send out a
reply to either  of  them  before July
myself, so  I  am  also  bad). The sad
thing is  that  there  are  also other
swappers, I  have not heard from since
then. Well, in  any  case, there might
be  hope  for  both Evan and Punisher,
scene-wise, but  maybe  not in regards
to swapping? The way it is going these
days, we  might  as  well  soon make a
united statement, and declare swapping
definitely  dead? Wait, there  is  one
more positive news bit.

ªCL8:Although Lahve of Scoopex, had  a huge
HD crash after the party he held  this
autumn, and this  has slowed  down his
swapping  quite  a  bit,ªCL1: he  is  still
alive and swapping. He also  complains
about the low number of  sends he gets
these   days   though.    Seems   like
everything  is  slowing  down  in  the
swapping business, and that  is  quite
understandable,  since  most  swappers
have got  Internet  too and might meet
up there. ªCL7:It  gets  harder  and harder
for them to see any  point  in sending
out a 'real' letter (yes, the point is
the long letter  and  the  friendship,
however,  it  is  hard  having this in
mind  all  the  time, when  having the
Internet,  especially  if   one  lacks
time, for  many  it seems like a waste
of time to swap then).ªCL1:

Anyway, if  you   still    want   this
alternative chart, please send in some
support, by mail or email,  I  do  not
care  which.  Otherwise, I can  either
close it  down  or write only about my
own  experiences....  We   will   see.
