
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                              Shift Of Management
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Written by »CL5:Darkhawk »CL6:of »CL5:IRIS

»CL1:You might have heard this already, but
if not.. Well, here is an article that
might pique your interest.

»CL8:In the recently released Jurassic Pack
#8, one can read that Darkage plans to
release both that mag, and  their  old
chart-mag Showtime.»CL1:  Apart  from  this
being  rather  ambitious,  there  were
also  some   changes   announced   for
Showtime. The new main  editor will be
Modem of Darkage,  who  has previously
been main editor, but  left the  group







after a  dispute,  and  then  recently
rejoined again. You can see quite some
signs of this 'dispute' in  St#16, but
it  looks  like Darkage  is shaping up
again  now,  and   that   some   heavy
internal   discussion   has   produced
results. »CL7:Modem rejoined,  and Zito and
Stingray are quiet on this  matter. As
we understood it,  Modem  is  now  the
organizer of the Italian branch of the
group, while Ghandy  is  organizer  of
the rest.»CL1:  We  here  at  EC  hope that
everything has turned out well for all
Darkage members.

Curious to  know  how  Showtime #17 is
shaping up, and what  the  deal behind
the two mags were, »CL8:I asked  Modem some
questions, which I might  just as well
paste here, because I  am way too lazy
to  rewrite  what  he  said..»CL1: Ehrr.. I
mean, for  the sake of clarity.. Yes..
Refer to  my  Jurassic Pack review for
news and  info  relating  to that mag.

So,  let  us  see...  Some questions..
First off, why did Ghandy want to do a
(semi) new mag, instead of just having
ST as a combined mag/chart?

"No, JP is not a new mag... he firstly
wanted to keep the "old" code (it  was
improved by Stingray/Darkage),  but he
had problems with Gods, so he  started
looking for  a  new  mag  code. »CL7:At the
same time, Devotion was  dead, and  we
had  MrTickle/Darkage  with a magazine
engine ready  without a mag.»CL1:  The  two
things merged  in  a very natural way.
Ghandy  always   wanted   to  continue
making JP and ST... and  I  like  this
idea, as  I  am  a big fan of JP (JP#1
was the first file I downloaded when I
connected on Internet  for  the  first
time, years ago!)"

»CL6:Moreover,  when  did  you come up with
the  idea  to  actually  release  both
mags, with  Ghandy  and Zito in charge
of JP,  and  you  in   charge  of  ST?»CL1:

"Well, I wanted to continue with ST...
People like to continue  their habits,
and  so  do I :) I  like   spending my
(little) free time  making  Showtime."

»CL8:As  for  ST, how  is  the   new  issue
turning out? When can we  expect it to
be released?»CL1: Are you planning to focus
on the chart part now,  since JP  is a
diskmag, or will ST  have  both a  mag
and a chart part? Maybe you want it to
be more  like  in  the old times, with
the Chart?

»CL7:"Yes,  of  course  I  do  not  want  a
useless challenge  between two Darkage
magazines.  Therefore,  ST  will  keep
"my" style (see issue #15..»CL1: that is an
issue like I always wanted ST), giving
more attention  to  the charts and the
news, but  still  publishing   a   few
articles. JP  will  become  the "real"
mag :) I think  issue #17  will be out
sometime  in  January,  I  planned  to
release it   at TP first,  but   I  am
introducing  some  news  that  require
more time :) The code  will remain the
same. Yes, many  consider it outdated,
but I like its fashion :) It is  a bit
"demode'",  but  I  love  it for  this
reason :) »CL8:Those who complain about the
AGA-only  compatibility  can  download
UAE  and  use  ST on it, it runs  very
fast, also on an Amiga :)"»CL1:
           »PIC:4.iff»







Lastly,   have   you   had     trouble
collecting   votes  for it?  How  many
votes do  you think  is  necessary  to
release a reliable chart?

"»CL7:For a chart to be considered a chart,
it  needs  at  least 100 votes. We can
reach that number :)»CL1:"

Here  I   ran   out    of    immediate
questions for  Modem,  but  I  have to
say, he answered  very fast, and well,
he is  certainly optimistic  about the
amount of votes they can collect until
January.  In  fact,  I would  like  to
propose a  bet  to the ST team: If you
manage to get  100 votes collected  in
January (2002), I  will.. Ehh.. Eat my
hat? No.. Give the  team one free beer
each, at Mekka Symposium? Yes, that is
more likely. But if they do not manage
this, each team member  has to give ME
one  beer  at MS.. Is  that not  an ok
bet? Please accept it, I will be happy
whether I win or loose..

»CL8:Seriously, though, I  very  much doubt
that Showtime can get such a number of
votes, especially  in such short time.
It takes us around 3-4 months  to  get
enough votes.»CL1: Granted, it  is  because
we let people vote of their own accord
for  the  first 2-3  months, and then,
when we have the  10-20  votes  people
send freely, we  spend each and  every
day on the IRC ++, to force  people to
vote. Ehrr, I would be very  surprised
if  Showtime  was  to  have  an  equal
amount of voters on such short notice,
but  it  would be a good thing if they
did, so from  here,  I will  close  by
telling  you  all to vote for Showtime
too  please. »CL8:I  think  the  scene  can
stomach two charts, eh?»CL1:
