
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                             The Devotion Saga
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Written by»CL5: Darkus»CL6: of »CL5:IRIS

                                »CL0:Introduction

»CL1:With   the   release   of   the   much
publicised Devotion #2, I'd previously
felt no pressure to  discuss or  write
any articles on the developments which
unfolded behind the scenes  away  from
your    knowledge.   However,    after
conversing with  several  sceners,  it
unexpectedly became apparent that they
had formulated some  idea  about  »CLA:Wade
and  I  had   become  fierce  enemies»CL1:.
Moreover, various misled  people  have









turned against Wade  believing he went
behind my back. This article  has been
composed  solely  to  set  the  record
straight, and to  ensure  no  blame is
misdirected.

»CL0:          What About Magic?

»CL1:Before  I  dive  any further, one must
clear  the  confusion  Magic   had  so
kindly  set  up. It wasn't long before
my  secret  was  out  in  the  general
public that  infact  »CL8:I hadn't left the
scene,  and  only   used  this  as  an
attempt to cover up  my  plans to work
on Devotion #2»CL1:. I had planned it to be
a surprise for our  unexpecting  Amiga
scene.  Somehow,  somewhere  down  the
line Magic had  grasped  wind of this.
Moreover,  finding  out  he  no longer
had any association with the  magazine
infuriated him, thus  leading him to a
seriously  dangerous  volatile  state.
I'd heard  reports of Magic stealthily
using my  nick on  #amigascne  begging
support  for  Devotion #2,  where  the
unexpecting supporters would infact be
sending  their  articles  to  his  new
email address. Though failing  in  his
initial sabotage attempt, he  began to
pester  Mr.Tickle/Darkage  asking  for
the Devotion  source  code. Of course,
Mr.Tickle was  already informed I  was
working on  a  new issue and Magic was
promptly  refused  any  access  to the
Devotion  source.   Ultimately,  Magic
sank  to  a   disreputable  level.  He
announced  he  would  create  his  own
magazine, and he'd  name it "Devotion"
but  not  ONLY  that,  he  claimed  to
release it as "Devotion #2".  »CLB:At  this
point I'd  obtained Magic  had  really
lost  his  mentality»CL1:. Fair enough, one
can  maybe  understand  he  was fairly
upset. Still, would you  go  as far as
he did?  Concluding  the matter,  I at
least  hope I've achieved  my  goal of
clearing a part  of Magic's cloud over
Devotion. »CL6:Always  remember  that Magic
was infact  removed from the  Devotion
staff after releasing the debut issue.
»CL1:From  that  moment  on,   he   had  no
connection  of   any   kind  with  the
magazine.

         »PIC:3.iff»











»CL0:           What About Wade?

»CL1:My initial idea was to create Devotion
#2 alone,  obviously  a  smaller  size
issue  than  the  first  release.  »CL6:I'd
decided to eliminate various sections,
including: party reports, adverts  and
so on»CL1:. I'd actually explained  this to
Wade in  multiple conversations and he
picked  up  some  motivation along the
way, and with  Magic  out of the staff
he   seemed    genuinely   interested.
Without expecting  a positive  answer,
I  asked  him  to team up with me, and
he agreed. Everything was going better
than I had planned! Even  further down
the line Sane followed Wade and teamed
up with me. Before  I knew it, between
the three of us, we had created almost
an entire issue. I'd already collected
the majority  of  the  modules and the
title  picture. We  were  set  to  go.
However,  when  I  initially   started
working on  the  second issue,  »CL8:I  had
plenty  of  time  on  my  hands  while
unemployed»CL1:. A  little  way into making
the  new  issue  I  found myself a new
full-time  job.  Still  I had time and
motivation. It  wasn't   until  a  few
weeks had passed  everything began  to
take its toll. Coming  in from work, I
had  time  for  my  meal and a shower,
then I'd be out with my girlfriend and
son till late. As  soon  as  I arrived
home  again, I'd be so  tired  I  just
wanted sleep, which  is  all one  did.
Following   this   routine,   I   lost
complete  interest  in  the  scene and
computers  in  general.  Hence neither
»CL6:Wade nor Sane received any  life signs
from me over  quite  a  long period of
time»CL1:. Following these events, Wade and
Sane decided  enough  was  enough  and
they  went  on  without me.  Mr.Tickle
passed the source  over to Wade and he
had to  start  from scratch with  only
articles   from   Sane   and  himself.

»CL0:            Backstabbing?

»CL1:As  you   now  know,   there   was  no
backstabbing  of  any  kind  involved.
Infact I would've done the same if the
situation  were  reversed, and if  any
bitter feelings  remain  against Wade,
always  remember: "»CLC:If  it  wasn't  for
Wade,  Devotion  #2  would  still   be
sitting  half finished on Darkus' HD!»CL1:"
I haven't  spoken  to  Sane  since the
release   of  issue  2,   however  I'm
guessing we're  still  friendly.  Wade
and I have no problems whatsoever with
each other. Just  before my concluding
lines, »CL8:I would  like  to apologise  to
everyone  I   let   down   within  the
Devotion team»CL1:. Wade, Sane, Reed,  Zaac
& Mr.Tickle.  I  hope  they will  once
again  trust  me  in the future.  I'll
close     the      article     sending
congratulations  to everyone  involved
with Devotion #2, it  was  undoubtedly
the best  magazine  released over  the
last few years. They  have  my deepest
respect.
















           »PIC:4.iff»
