
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                            The Legend WILL Return!
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Written by »CL5:Sane »CL6:of »CL5:Haujobb

               »CL6:Answers by »CL5:Fishwave »CL6:of »CL5:Scoopex »CL6:& »CL5:Dual Crew Shining

»CL1:TMB  of  Scoopex  posted  the  news on
www.scenet.de  a while ago.  Instantly
people  became  ecstatic.  Both  Amiga
Sceners and  PC  Sceners  seem to love
the idea  of  the return of one of the
most    exciting     magazines   ever.
»CLA:Seenpoint  will  return  to the Scene!
»CL1:After two years of absence, the legend
will  return  in   its   full   glory.
Seenpoint will not return to the Amiga
Scene  though. Instead, Seenpoint will









»CL1:set its  first conquering steps on the
PC-platform. Still this was great news
for virtually  every  Scener, also for
the (ex-) Amiga  Sceners.  »CL8:After  all,
most  Amigans  own  a PC next to their
beloved  miggy  nowadays  and  more or
less follow  that  Scene as well.»CL1: Most
ex-Amiga Sceners have 'escaped' to the
Scenic  platform   of   the   Personal
Computer   and   the    most   genuine
PC-Sceners  have  heard  enough   good
things  about  Seenpoint  to bid her a
very warm welcome.

»CL8:Let  us   face   it;  Seenpoint  is  a
legendary  diskmag.  She   deserves  a
place  in  the  list of most notorious
magazines.»CL1: When one  thinks of the ten
greatest    magazines     ever,    one
automatically   thinks    of   Cracker
Journal,   News   On   Tour,     Zine,
Abnormalia,  McDisk,   RAW,  Upstream,
ROM, Generation & Seenpoint. Seenpoint
deserves   her    untouchable   status
because  she  brought  a  new,  fresh,
humoristic   and   rebellious   style.
»CL6:Together  with   Generation   and  ROM
Seenpoint  changed  the way of writing
and dominated an entire Amiga-era.»CL1: The
years  1996-1999  were   dominated  by
these  three  magazines and now one of
these three will return. Mr. Seenpoint
himself, Adrian  Jaglarz, going by the
Scenic  alias  of Fishwave,  will show
the  PC-Scene  how  one  should make a
real magazine.


        »PIC:3.iff»












»CL1:The Eurochart  thought  it was time to
find out  a  bit more about the latest
project  of  the  Seenpoint  staff. So
many   questions    have    been  left
unanswered. »CL8:Did Fishwave not promise a
PC  version  of  Seenpoint right after
the  production  of  the Amiga version
was stopped?»CL1: How  real  are the recent
rumours?   Has  the   project   REALLY
started? When can  we expect the first
issue of Seenpoint? Which editors will
form the  Seenpoint-staff? Which group
will produce Seenpoint? Will  Fishwave
continue  where  he left off two years
ago? »CL6:Will Seenpoint be able to compete
with  the already  well-established PC
zines?»CL1: The  best  thing  to  do was of
course  to  contact   the   father  of
Seenpoint, the  man  who knows it all,
Fishwave of Scoopex^Dual Crew Shining.
Fortunately, Fishwave  found some time
for us in his jam-packed time schedule
that is dominated  by  his studies and
his girlfriend.

»CL1:Here we go.

»CL1:Is it  true?!! »CL7:Has the project  really
started now?!!!  How  developed is the
project now?»CL1: Just  ideas  or also bits
and bytes?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:It depends on what one understands  by
"really  started". We have a coder for
the code  and  a  graphician  for  the
graphics.  Musicians  already  offered
their help too, and  even some article
support  has  been announced. There is
not  a  single  useful  byte  on   any
computer yet,  but  that  is how it is
when  you  are  just getting  started.

»CL1:Will  Seenpoint-PC  be a  Scoopex-only
production?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:Yes, it will. The main Scoopex members
behind  the  project are Dynac (code),
TMB  (organizing),  maybe  also  Lahve
(additional support) and  I (main-ed).
Who  knows if  not  more  people  join
forces with us once the mag is out and
Scoopex get back  its former strength.

»CL1:Can you give us the names of your team
(coder,     graphician,     musicians,
editors)?
»PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»







»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:The  coder  is  Dynac,   who  recently
joined Scoopex and made a  comeback to
the scene (he has been a member of The
Silents  before).   TMB    does   some
organizing, and  I  guess  that  Lahve
will  support us  wherever he can too.
As  for  the  real  staff, it is I and
Sane   and   Wade   are    welcome  to
participate as  well. As the Seenpoint
staff  never  split up, I guess  there
should be no doubt here.

(Ed - Wade recently  confirmed that he
would  participate  in  the  Seenpoint
staff   next   to  Fishwave  and Sane)

»CL1:Why do you want to make  Seenpoint-PC?
Do you think  it  is worth the effort?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:If it is worth any  effort regarding a
diskmag, then it is to  make  the best
PC diskmag and  show  the PC scene how
a  diskmag  must  be  like. They think
they  have  seen  diskmags,  but  they
really have not seen one yet.

»CL1:Will Seenpoint-PC be anything like the
original Seenpoint, which  the  people
liked so much?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:Since  the  staff  is  the same, it is
very likely that we continue  where we
stopped with issue 9 on Amiga. We will
not have quantity  but  quality.  Lame
support,   one-paged   articles,   and
non-scenic   stuff   are    not   what
Seenpoint will tolerate.

»CL1:Will she feature  the  same, original,
rebellious, humoristic style?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:Certainly! Just  because  I have  been
lazy the last  two years does not mean
that  I  lost  my  style  of  writing.
Fishwave is  always Fishwave and  thus
Seenpoint is Seenpoint.

»CL1:Will you  have the time  to  main edit
Seenpoint-PC the  way  you main edited
the original Seenpoint? After all, you
are on university now ...

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:I admit  that  this  is a problem. The
scene is on third  to fourth  place in
my life.  My  studies  and  girlfriend
come first. Especially my studies take
up  practically  90% of  all  my time.
Studying law  means to read books over
books and  write  plenty  of exams all
the time. So actually, I do not intend
to be such  a  dominant  person within
the staff as on Amiga. The other staff
members  will  have  to   help   here.

»CL1:Did  the Seenpoint-staff not grow  too
old to produce a Scene magazine?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:Maybe, but I do not see it  like that.
The biggest  mistake a  demogroup  can
make  is not taking in new members and
thus  stay  active  for  a  long time.
That is also the case  with Seenpoint.
We  will  need  new staff members  who
will gradually take over more and more
responsibility.     Therefore,     the
experienced staff in combination  with
new, fresh blood should  be able to go
for this project.

»CL1:In  what  space  of time can we expect
the  first  issue   of   Seenpoint-PC?
Within 6 months?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:Considering  that  it  is  November or
December already,  I  think  that  six
months from now are realistic. I guess
around the  time  of MekkaSymposium we
will know more.

»CL1:Is it  true  the  Seenpoint  code will
only  be  able  to  handle  MP3-format
music? Why?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:Most probably this is the case. On PC,
this is  the  standard  format. We are
not sticking to old (Amiga) standards.
We are making a NEW diskmag.

»CL1:Will  Seenpoint-PC   be    an   online
magazine  too or 'just' an .exe  file?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:It is going to be an executable first.
Personally, I  am  not  the least  bit
interested  in  net publishing, but if
Scoopex  want  it,  they  can  do  it.

»CL1:Do  you  think  Seenpoint-PC  will  be
able to  compete with  Hugi  and Pain?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:As  for  Hugi  and  Pain they are mags
that are far  from an  Amiga  magazine
standard,   no  matter   whether   you
compare  them  to  RAW, Upstream, ROM,
Generation  or  Seenpoint.   These  PC
magazines do not  have any idea how to
give  style  to  a  diskmag  and  just
consist of  many  articles from people
who just felt like  writing something.

»CL1:Do you think PC  sceners  want/need  a
magazine like Seenpoint?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:At least they should  have experienced
it and  then  they can  decide whether
they want/need it or not.

»CL1:Will  Seenpoint-PC focus  only  on the
PC-scene or will it keep an eye on the
Amiga scene as well?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:Amiga topics will play almost no role.
We  are  not  Amiga  missionaries  who
bring   true  demo  scene  spirit.  PC
sceners are  certainly  not interested
in the  Amiga  and  I  can  very  well
understand   that.   Furthermore,   by
making a PC  diskmag we are PC sceners
ourselves. We  might  have  some  news
on the Amiga scene with all the latest
happenings, though.

»CL1:Do you think  Seenpoint-PC will live a
long life?

»CL8:               Fishwave

»CL0:Nobody can predict this, but if you do
not try, you will never learn.
»CL1:Thanks  a  lot  to Fishwave of Scoopex
and Dual Crew Shining for his valuable
time  and  nice  & detailed   answers.





         »PIC:5.iff»
