
»CL6:----------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:             The Past And Present Scene And Some Ranting
»CL6:----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Written by »CL5:Amorel

»CL1:Though I did like being asked to write
one or more  articles  for  this  mag,
I am not much  of a writer. It is also
hard  to  really  think  of a subject.
There are  quite  a few things I could
write  and/or  bitch  about.  »CL8:As  this
is my first article, I figure that the
focus should lie on an overview of the
scene»CL1:, what I  think of it, and take a
sentimental journey. ;-)

First,  I  would   like  to  introduce
myself and do some self-promotion. ;-)







»CL6:I  owned  my  first  computer in early
1989»CL1:, a Commodore 64. Before I got it,
I often  used  to  play  at  a friend.
Of course, I  loved it a lot, but  was
not able  to  afford  one until in the
late 80`s. I  wanted  to  buy an Amiga
500 but it  was twice as expensive, so
not  till  later. By  the  time  I was
living on  my own  as a student, for a
couple of months, I was able to afford
an Amiga, so in early 1993 I bought an
Amiga  600  and  mid 1994 exchanged it
for  an  Amiga  1200. At  the computer
fare  where  I  bought the 600, I also
got my first glance  into "the scene",
quite  late  actually.  Though  I  did
pirate C=64 games and the likes, I did
not connect  it to any scene really. »CL7:I
bought the demo "Odyssey" from some Pd
seller»CL1:  and  checked it out as soon as
possible. It was great, even on a 600.
Before  I  got  Internet  in 1995, the
only way  I  got  demos was from cover
disks, if at all. Both inspired by the
great  music  in demos, like "Odyssey"
and  the  great music in "UltimaVI", I
started  trying  to make music myself,
using  a  free  cover  disk version of
"Octamed"  and  I   have   not  really
stopped since then.

Even though I have  never really  been
"into the scene", I  always  liked it.
The general attitude, as I saw it, the
friendships  involved, as well  as the
coding/creativity were very appealing,
but I was and still am  quite a loner,
so I did not make any attempts to join
a group. (was  not even thinking about
if I was good enough). Nowadays, since
I  got  ADSL  I  just act l33t, (read:
idling ;) in  #amigascne and  lurk  my
way  "into  the  scene"    like   some
wannabe ;-) Seriously, »CL6:I  was actually
in a short-lived module  group  called
Instinct in 1997,  not  the  known one
though»CL1:.

As I said before, I make  music and do
so with  a  great  deal  of variety in
quality meaning that I  make some good
music every now and then and some crap
most  of  the  time  and even though I
have released  quite  a few modules, I
only truly  like a few of them. People
have  received them surprisingly well.
Since I have the ability to make MP3s,
»CL7:I  release   music   made   with  midi
equipment»CL1:, including the  usage of the
Amiga. Moreover, those do sound better
at  least  according  to me. You  must
judge for yourself:

»CL5:http://www.xs4all.nl/~amorel/amusic.html

»CL1:and

»CL5:http://www.mp3.com/vopak

»CL1:I also do programming, but not in  the
demo-coding kind of way. I have made a
module  player, the Amoralplayer, (can
be  found  on Aminet)  that  is  still
updated  and  I am currently making an
x0x  style  midi/audio  sequencer,  so
stay tuned for that. I plan to port it
to QNX and (dr)dos. I  will  only port
it  to  platforms  that  offer a great
deal of realtime capabilities.
»PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»







Through the Internet and CDs with demo
collections, I was and am  able to see
and  hear  quite  a  lot  of demos and
music. As it has been said before, the
artistic  quality  was  very high back
then (1992-1995), but of course; there
were  also  more  people  in the Amiga
scene.   »CL6:Demos   like  "DesertDreams",
"Origin",    "State of the Art",   and
"Nexus 7" really made an impression on
me»CL1:. I especially  liked the music. The
mod-exes    called   "Bios-Substance",
"Loneliness", and  "Longing",  I truly
liked big time (The Party 1992)  and I
recall that  I  often  played the demo
called "Retina-aga" which had  a great
rave  tune,  also  from  around  1992.
Actually,  most  of  the  demo music I
hear  is  quite  pleasing  to the ear,
solely   because    of   the  quality.
However, »CL6:though the amount of releases
has decreased,  hereby  affecting  the
amount of quality releases»CL1:, the actual
quality,      professionalism,     and
creativity, shown through  the best of
the  present  releases  has  risen. Of
course,  most   of   those   who  make
releases    these   days   were   also
releasing   back    then    and  their
experience shows off. I  also like the
general feeling, a  sort of happiness,
that  most of the scene music seems to
spread,  (this  may   sound  corny ;),
often quite uplifting  but with a nice
atmosphere,  even  when  it  is  a bit
moody and  without  being overly happy
and  joyful.  However,  my   all  time
favourite  module,   not   necessarily
scene related, is "Step_into_darkness"
by Randall.  Check  it out;  it  is on
Aminet under the name stepdarkness.lha

»CL7:Before  I  started   hanging   out  in
»CL5:#amigascne»CL7:, I  rarely got  any  direct
information from the scene»CL1:. Of course,
I read party reports  and  checked out
pictures but  I  did  not  often  talk
directly  to   the   people  involved.
Therefore, my idea of  how it actually
was in the past  compared  with now is
probably not very  good  or even true.
Nevertheless, I do  think that quite a
lot has changed  compared  to the past
concerning parties. Parties (big ones)
mainly seem to be a gaming event, with
a, partially,  lame   audience   as  a
result. I  am  not  sure  that a  demo
party  and  a   LAN   party   go  well
together.  »CL7:Hopefully,  you  have  some
people (who  are  quite  serious about
what  they  do,   like   coding    and
composing etc.) making demos and music
and fx»CL1: and you have a bunch of playful
kids  (often  lacking    creative  and
mental qualities  which  are seemingly
default  for  sceners)  playing  games
forever.  »CLA:Look  at  the last Gathering»CL1:
pictures to get an idea  of  what I am
talking about.  However,  this  is not
even the  worst thing that has come to
my attention!  I  have heard  and seen
evidence  of  some  »CL8:very pathetic  and
sad, no, plain sick, happenings taking
place»CL1:  at  parties. One  of them being
giving each  other  blowjobs and other
unquestionable sexual  activities that
does  not  belong  on  a demo party! I
cannot even begin to imagine the shear
level of  stupidity  such  individuals
must posses. They  do   certainly  not
deserve any  respect  whatsoever. If I
should ever witness such crap, I would
surely  try  to  kick  them out. I can
only hope that most people  agree with
this and that those people have gotten
their fair share  of  humiliation  and
bitching. »CL6:After all, there are quite a
few pictures going  around of at least
some  of  them. I   would   suggest  a
publicly humiliation if they were ever
spotted  at  a  future  party»CL1:.  (Note:
After doing some research, I found out
that this sexual crap happens/happened
around  PC-sceners,  which  explains a
lot,  though   it   does   not  change
anything  about  the stupidity of it).

»CL7:Another  thing   that   disturbed  me,
however  to  a  lesser extent, is  the
excessive  drinking  at  the  parties»CL1:.
I  do  not  care  about the occasional
drinking of alcohol, but it seems that
things  do  tend to get (dangerously?)
out  of  hand at times. I have  always
found  the  prohibiting  of alcohol at
parties to be  a good thing and recent
happenings seem to confirm this. I for
one would like a total ban on  alcohol
consumption  at  any scene party. I am
sure  that  many  will  find  me  lame
because of this, and  I  am not even a
"true  scener", but  I  do  not give a
rats' arse! »CL8:You do want to give a good
impression and image of scene parties»CL1:,
I hope. The   image   I   had   as  an
"outsider" was  quite  positive in the
past, but  taking  the  aforementioned
things  into  consideration  the image
shown about  scene  parties  does  not
seem all too bright. Although I have a
feeling that the quality and enjoyment
of parties can differ  greatly and the
"game  kiddies: demo  sceners"   ratio
might also have a  great  influence on
that.

Ok, enough for now. There  is  more to
come in  the  future. Maybe  I  should
write  a  tutorial  about  OS-friendly
coding and GUI coding ;-)




         »PIC:5.iff»
