
»CL6:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                    The PC Scene Is Not Our Standard!
»CL6:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Written by »CL5:Alvin »CL6:of »CL5:Nah Kolor

»CL1:With  the  introduction  of the  1 GHz
processors  by  AMD   and  Intel,  the
PC has reached new  standards  when it
comes to speed.  Even though currently
a bit  out  of  reach  for  the normal
user,  »CL6:prices  drop  rapidly  when  it
comes to computer hardware.»CL1:

Now,  imagine  owning   one  of  these
monster machines.  Together  with  the
new  graphics  card  from  ATI  (maybe
the one that was supposed to be in the
computer Amiga  announced, while owned







by Gateway),  it  would  be  a killer.
Imagine   then  a  demo  produced  and
made  especially  for  this  computer.
Yeah, that  would  be something, would
it not? Or would it?

»CL8:For  many  years,  the Amiga Scene set
the  standards  when  it came to demos
and  Scene  productions»CL1:.  The PC Scene
came out  of  the  Amiga Scene. Things
are  very  different  these  days.  It
seems like the PC Scene is setting the
standards. Whatever Amiga Sceners  see
in PC demos, they  try to duplicate to
show that "Hey, we can do that too and
we  can  do  it better!" Vanity, is it
not?

»CL6:In a sense it does seem like the Amiga
Scene is a bit arrogant.»CL1:  We desire to
beat  the  PC Scene in their back yard
by doing the very same things they do.
We are trying to  play in their league
even  though  wedo not quite  qualify.
We are trying  to kick their tail, but
we cannot quite reach it.

The PC boasts hundreds of  MHz when it
comes to  speed.  »CL7:The  graphics  cards
available  are  fantastic and superior
to   Amiga   cards   and   with   that
combination,  anything  the  PC  Scene
puts out will be superior technically.»CL1:
Surely the Amiga demos  has shown that
the  Amiga  can  do amazing things but
one cannot deny  that  »CL7:we  will  never
quite  reach  our  goal if this is the
PC Scene and their productions.»CL1:

Lately, there has been some discussion
in  the   Eurochart   concerning  this
issue. One camp  does  not  understand
why the whole Scene does not just jump
on the PowerPC bandwagon  and  upgrade
so  that  new   productions  can  take
advantage of the  power.  »CL6:These people
seem to desire a change similar to the
one the Scene experienced when AGA was
introduced.»CL1:  The other  camp is not as
excited about this  though.  To  them,
PowerPC   is  a   dead-end,  a  futile
exercise in spending money that  leads
nowhere.  While the  first  group sees
more   speed  as  the  foundation  for
greater  production,  this  group does
not.  Instead, they are  content  with
030  and  040  and  the  thing  called
demos-with-design.

»CL7:On  its face, the  race  to  go faster
and faster seems to be a reflection of
the PC Scene  and a desire to go where
the PC Scene  is and even  beyond this
point.»CL1:  They  set  the  standards,  we
follow.

From  another  point of view, it seems
like  the  people  that  dislikes this
move  towards  PowerPC  are  the  ones
scared  of  taking risks, people  that
does   not  like   unknown  territory.
These people have  always been around,
always complaining when they  are left
behind.

However,  both   parties   have   good
points. First, we need to be creative,
we need to think different.  What  the
Amiga Scene  needs is  not necessarily
fast amazing hardware since  this will
only  produce  copies of the PC Scene.
We need to  be unique  and we will not
accomplish  this by running after  the
GHz chip.
»PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»







The C64  Scene is respected  and their
demos  are looked at  with awe.  It is
amazing  what  they can squeeze out of
such limited hardware. »CL8:The creators of
the C64 demos  are  respected for what
they can do  with the limited hardware
they  have,»CL1:  not for the lots of speed
and  powerful  graphics  cards they do
not  have.  Watching  the  latest  C64
demos is truly amazing and Amiga demos
needs this status as well.

»CL6:On  the other  hand, PowerPC  does not
have  to  be  a  dead-end. »CL1: If it is a
dead-end for Amiga demos and programs,
it is  in  many  cases because we, the
users, are not supporting it. With all
that have happened  the past years and
most recently  the  demise  of Phase5,
the future of PowerPC sure  seems dark
and it is understandable if  users are
not willing  to cough up big bucks for
something uncertain.   However,  those
who   keep  an  eye  on  the  hardware
developments on the Amiga market knows
that  the  Phase5 PPC-cards are  still
available and other PPC-only cards are
also  under  development.  »CL7:It is  also
worth considering that the  new  Amiga
OS will actually run  on these new PPC
cards»CL1:  while  at  the  same  time  not
closing the door to old software.  So,
to say  that PPC is a  dead-end is not
quite true.

Surely,  the PPC has its place  but if
we  only  use  the  power available to
copy  others, we will  not  accomplish
much.  »CL8:Amiga demos will be truly great
when we  no  longer  try to be what we
are not.»CL1:  The Amiga Scene is different
from the PC Scene.  At least this  has
always been one of its claims. So, let
us be different.  Let  us  not  strive
to be like others, let us strive to be
different. Walk away from the standard
set by  the  PC Scene.  Let us set our
own  standards,  speed  or  no  speed.
If    setting   new   standards    and
innovation comes  from  using  PowerPC
and high  speeds, so  be  it.  If not,
let us be content with  what  we  have
and »CL7:let us show the world that amazing
things  can  be   done  with   limited
resources.»CL1:







       »PIC:3.iff»
