
»CL6:----------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                       The TRSAC Strategy [tm]
»CL6:----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Written by »CL5:Nico

»CL1:First, let  me  introduce  myself.  My
name is Nicolai Hansen, a 20-year  old
Dane living in Sweden now. »CL8:I am mostly
known  as  nic0,  the   infamous   IRC
shit-talker,   and   by  some   people
believed to  be in Loonies»CL1: - I am NOT.
To talk about how  long  I  have  been
"active" in the  scene would be to put
quite a  strain  on the term "active",
a term  that  is  already  quite under
pressure :)  Instead let us say that I
got interested in scene  stuff as late
as 98, and  has been kindly brought up







by  the  Danish Amiga community,  even
though my  very  seldom  outbursts  of
creativity  happens on PC.  Big thanks
there, I am a big boy now, so there is
no  need  to change my scening diapers
anymore.

What I really  want  to  talk about is
something I do find quite interesting.
»CL6:After TP99,  Booster/LNS,  Farfar/LNS,
Puryx of whatever, Ody, and  I decided
to have our  own  party.»CL1:  Booster  has
written an  excellent  article  on how
and why ,  and it would be fair to say
that "pulling  a leg" on  the scene is
a  World-record  in   understatements,
when  it  comes  to   describing  TP's
attitude towards scening in the latest
years...


So having  decided  to  host  our  own
party,  optimistically  called  TRSAC,
The  Real  Scene  After  Christmas, »CL7:we
found  that  the  success  of  a party
really  comes  down  to  three things,
namely  organizers,   attendants   and
support.»CL1: While it  is obvious that you
need dedicated organizers, who provide
brilliant locations, bigscreens and so
on, it seems  to  be  a common mistake
that:

A) Good   party  conditions  leads  to
   attendants and support.
B) Promised  attendants   and  support
   will be fulfilled.

To discuss point a) first...
It  is  great to  have a whole school,
lots of power, free  showers , and big
prizes..... this  is  really  a  great
achievement   from   the   organizers,
especially considering the  economical
strain most parties (not  TP I believe
though :) are under.  »CL8:But -  the  real
problem lies  in  the  fact that while
Darkhawk will be overly joyous that he
and Adonis can  sit down and eat their
burgers at  a  nice  clean table, they
wont give a  shit  for  the nice clean
table,»CL1:  if  they  are  the  only  ones
sitting around it. So Mr Darkhawk will
of course consider  the  following: Is
there anything  to  be GAINED by going
to this party. »CL6:Will  there  be lots of
fun?  Maybe  some  cool  releases?   A
chance  to  promote  IRIS  and the EC?
Raving mad  sceners like I?»CL1:  Likewise,
Herr Darkhawk will  of course consider
the  following  before   bullying  his
trusty   demo-squad   into   producing
another  top-notch  release   for  the
party:  Will  there be other releases?
Is the party, and thereby  the release
of a demo at  this party,  interesting
in the eyes of non-attendants?

»CL7:As the cynic and calculating organizer
I am, I  naturally realize that luring
Darkhawk and his  mad  demo crew to my
party will  lure  other  sceners to my
party.»CL1:  It  really  is  some  kind  of
Domino  effect, so  what  we  did  for
TRSAC was to  use  something known  as
*hype*. By hyping TRSAC, we created an
atmosphere  that   really    was   not
warranted when the party was born, and
thereby accomplished the following:

»CL1:A) »CL8:We   lured Darkhawk  to  our party.
»CL1:B) »CL8:We  kept  Adonis   from  destroying
   anything.
»CL1:C) »CL8:We got a TBL release.
»CL1:D) »CL8:We got tons of other cool releases.

»CL1:It really rocked. Most  people  had  a
good  time ,  and we got good reviews.
See where I am  going? I  will specify
further. By  creating an atmosphere of
"this  is  a  really  cool  party"  in
advance,  it  actually  BECAME  a cool
party. Because people thought it would
be cool,  they  gave support either by
presence  or  by  sending  a  release,
hence  MAKING  it  cool. »CL8:My  favourite
writer  Terry  Pratchett  claims  that
being is created by belief.»CL1: Therefore,
if all of a sudden we all believed The
Party    to   be   a    really,   cool
scene-party,  perhaps  it  would be so
because we would  support it according
to our belief. So telling  people that
a party  will  be  immensely  cool can
never be  a  lie ,  as  long as enough
people  believe  it.  Of   course   if
Darkhawk  convinced  me  that  TG  was
really,   really    cool,   but   only
convinced me, it would  not make  much
of a difference. It would make a small
difference but not enough.  »CL7:Therefore:
If you think you can make a cool party
with  enough   support   TELL  people.»CL1:
Otherwise,  they  will not believe it,
and it will not be cool.

This  leads  me  straight  forward  to
point b).

»CL7:It is  incredibly  easy to get sceners
to promise you a release, very easy. I
could gather  promises for 20 mods, 10
demos, and 12  intros.»CL1:  However,  when
the day  of  the  party came, I  would
receive 7 mods, 2 demos, and 3 intros.
This final  amount  is cool for our 50
participants,  especially when it says
IRIS, Loonies, and TBL, on some of the
releases, thereby creating  some waves
of  excitement  through   the  scening
community. See, I am greatly satisfied
with 2 demos, 3 intros, and 7 mods for
a  small  start-up party ( all numbers
are theoretical). Had I only  gathered
promises for this amount I  might have
gotten only half.

The problem is getting these releases.
»CL8:I would like to thank Phono or LFO for
introducing me to  the  term "arsing".»CL1:
Yes, it might sound perverted, but  it
is  not (unless  you  are  of  a  very
sadistic  nature).  The  principle  is
that  when  Booster  asks  me   to  do
something, we all  know it will not be
done.  However, if  it  is  important,
Booster will "arse" me. He  will  keep
on pestering my life  until  I  finish
what I promised. This  term could also
be applied to  Rubberduc. Even though,
he is  a  cocky  and  arrogant Swedish
bumchummer (in a  cute  way of course)
it is possible to  get  something nice
out of him,  like a release. Of course
we showed all due respect to TBL, well
I did not as I can  excuse  myself  as
being a  newbie  lamer, but  still  we
convinced TBL to do a  release for the
first  TRSAC,  which  we  regard  as a
success. »CL6:Arsing Rubberduc, Booster, or
whoever  cannot  be  done  by  anybody
though. You  have  to  have  a certain
relation to them.»CL1: Sure, you can always
count on Reed to do a mod,  but if you
are  a complete  stranger, who  starts
arsing Booster for  an  intro for your
party he  has  never  even heard of...
Well, it  will  not  be  a success. He
will be mad and think you  are a major
pain  in  the  arse.  So, only  "arse"
people you know  and are friends with.
Trying to convince a stranger and then
pestering his life  will not do you OR
your party any good.
To sum up my two main points:
»CL8:In order to  start-up a new party  you
need   to   create   some    kind   of
excitement.

        »PIC:3.iff»











»CL1:  Excitement  is  the  best
factor available for getting the scene
to work.  Look   at   Mekka/Symposium.
It is like  Christmas  Eve to Sceners,
and boy,  are  they  ready to work for
Mekka! So  convince  the  sceners  out
there  that  your   party   is   worth
investing in.  Gather tons of promised
releases,  and   even  more   promised
attendants.   Set    up   the  perfect
backdrop  for  a  great  party (I have
heard good  things  about IRIS'  Scene
Meeting  in   this  field)  and  start
gathering  the   releases.   Use   the
excitement you  create for your fellow
sceners  as   rocket   fuel,  fuelling
yourself  to  have   an  even  greater
amount  of  energy   to   enhance  the
greatness of  the  party and last, but
not least, let a  newbie  like me have
a word.

I would like to list a number of small
parties  that  I  find interesting and
worth  visiting  if  time   and   life
permits it.

»CLB:Kindergarten: »CL1:I attended last year and
it  was  a  really ,  great party well
worth  the  trip  to  Norway  and  the
Norwegian   hell   prizes.   Tons   of
friendly guys  and girls,  soccer  and
space for LOTS more. Go to KG :)

»CLB:Scene Meeting: »CL1:I  have  never attended
but   judging   from    the   reports,
word-of-mouth,  and  IRC,   this   one
should be worth visiting.

»CLB:Scene Event: »CL1:  Has    barbecue,   live
trance, crazy  Danes  and  Swedes, and
this  year  they  even   have   Amiga.
Fuck me, if I am not going :)

»CLB:Underscore: »CL1:A  quite new party held in
Gothenburg, the capital of the Swedish
Scene. It  looks  interesting, and has
both PC  and Amiga.  I really,  really
hate myself  for  not  being  able  to
attend.

Support these smaller parties and fuck
The Party and The Gathering. Of course
you should  take their prizes with old
source-code  or   whatever,   but   do
support  the  small  parties.  If  the
scene  has  any  future,  it  lies  in
smaller scene-only parties.

We  plan  to  host  the 3rd TRSAC when
time permits. »CL7:I will attend SM if work
permits, Mekka/Symposium even if I die
in  the  attempt,  and   Scene   Event
because I, a  heretic,  like  combined
parties with both PC and Amiga.»CL1:


P.S.  T his  is  my  first   published
article  so  feedback  would  be  VERY
welcomed.. »CL8:I am a friendly person, but
if  an  email-flame   war    or    IRC
name-calling  is  more  to your liking
then  »CLB:please  DO  attack me!»CL1: The scene
has  too  few  fights and Shanewolf is
the   funniest  thing  I   have   ever
witnessed.
