
»CL6:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                   The Upgrading Nightmare - Will It Ever End?
»CL6:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     
                           Written by »CL5:Alvin »CL6:of »CL5:Nah-Kolor


»CL1:In the beginning, there was the Amiga
500  (actually,  the A1000).  Half  a
megabyte of memory was  plenty. Every
piece of software worked the same way
on all configurations, simply because
all configurations were  pretty  much
the same: disk drive, half a megabyte
of CHIP memory, stereo  sound,  and a
lot of colours.   »CL6:Everyone could  run
every game and demo out there.»CL1: It was
a    configuration    pretty     much
everything  worked  on. Everyone  was








happy.

Along came the PC. Inferior  in  every
aspect, it  was  now  to  conquer  the
world  and  »CL7:show  the Amiga users that
the PC was  the superior  machine. One
can of course  wonder  how  black  and
white  can  be  superior»CL1:  in  any  way
to our beloved  Workbench.  Naturally,
it is not.

The PC  could not beat  the Amiga when
comparing basic configuration to basic
configuration,   so    upgrading   the
inferior  PC  structure  was  the only
way. This  is  also  what happened and
this is  where  the PC world is today.
»PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»







Throughout the years, »CL8:Amiga users have
always  had   their   comments   about
incompatibility issues on the PC.»CL1: With
a number  of  different graphics cards
available,  software   producers  were
forced  to  write  a  driver for every
card.   The    situation    concerning
soundcards  was  pretty much the same.
Developers simply had to work more and
harder to  ensure  that  their product
would be compatible  with the greatest
number of set-ups  available. »CL6:The more
compatible  a  product was,  the  more
people  bought  it  or  got it and the
more  money  or  fame  the   producers
received.»CL1:

For many years, compatibility was  not
really an issue on Amigas. Most people
had  the  A500  or  the  A2000 and all
users  were  pretty  much  on the same
level. Along came the A1200/A4000 with
the  AGA  chipset. Suddenly, upgrading
was the way to go to continue with the
Amiga. »CL7:The software developers and the
Amiga demo-scene jumped on the AGA and
within  a  year, AGA was  all over the
place.»CL1:  For  those with an A500,  this
meant  that  much  of the new software
-releases  would  not  work  on  their
machine  and  they  were  left behind.

It seems like the next step was speed.
The  PC  platform  has  always boasted
about its  superior speed (even though
Windows  never  seem  to  be  able  to
utilize  it  properly) and it  was not
long after AGA was introduced that the
need for speed  was  upon us, 030 here
040 there. Users were asked to upgrade
since new  software would require more
speed.

»CL7:Sure enough, accelerator  boards  were
sold left  and right and software came
out  that  utilized  the  increase  in
speed.»CL1: Doom-clones  and  other amazing
games and demos hit the Amiga platform
and  everyone  was  amazed   with  the
greatness of the software.

Graphics cards and PowerPC  cards seem
to  have  been  the  next   step.  The
demands  for  more   MHz   and  faster
display options eventually led the way
for  the   PowerPC  revolution.  Speed
jumped  to  numbers  that Amiga owners
had  only  dreamed  of in the past and
suddenly, »CL6:games like Wipeout and demos
that could  compete  with the PC-demos
could be  produced»CL1:. One  should  think
that the  Amiga  Scene  would be doing
better  than ever, with  all the power
available to it.

It  is  not  so. True,   after  adding
accelerator  cards, graphics cards and
many  megabytes  of RAM, the  Amiga is
surely  faster  and more powerful than
it ever was.  The problem is that this
power only  seems to be available to a
minority. The  majority  cared  little
about  power  and  simply  wanted good
productions.
Through the years, as our  Amigas have
needed  upgrades,  there  have  always
been  some, who   were   not  able  to
upgrade  for  some  reason.  »CL8:When  the
Scene went from ECS  to AGA, some were
left behind.»CL1:  Eventually  they  either
sold  their  Amigas because they could
not  afford  upgrading  or  kept using
their   A500  to  the  best  of  their
ability. When the 030 and 040 replaced
the 020, some  users  were left behind
without accelerated  Amigas and again,
many of them disappeared.  These  days
we see the same thing happening again.
PPC is the  thing to have. Supposedly.
There might barely be any software out
there, but  it  is  fast and powerful.

It is common  knowledge  that  the PPC
revolution  was  and still is crawling
due  to  compatibility  issues. Is  it
time for another upgrade  with the new
Amiga OS supposedly some time soon? Is
it  time  to  leave what we have known
for years and reach  into the unknown?
»CLA:Warp-speed   anyone?»CLB:  Or   should   we
return to mother Earth?
