
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                            TRSAC Autumn Partyreport
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          Written by »CL5:Dr. Doom »CL6:of»CL5: IRIS

»CL1:Ok, first  of all, I  was  ORDERED  to
write this  article, it was  never  my
decision to do a party report. I  hate
this.

»CL8:Right,  TRSAC  then.  This  party  has
become somewhat of  a tradition around
these parts.  It's hosted  by a  bunch
of  Danish  Amiga  owners,  users  and
sceners,  as  well  as  (we assume)  a
bunch of sorry PC gamers. »CL1:The location
is whatever hall is available and  big
enough  to  accommodate   the   fairly







impressive  number   of  sceners   who
usually attend. »CL7:Sceners travel from as
far away as  Norway, Sweden,  Germany,
and  even  from the  UK  in  order  to
attend, which is quite impressive. »CL1: It
features  the  standard  compos  you'd
expect  from  any  party  (even  a 4ch
compo,  get that,  Mekka people?), and
whether you like it or not, PC sceners
are  allowed  inside.  They  are  even
given a few compos, which I think is a
very  decent gesture on  behalf of the
organizers.
This semester  the  party was held  in
some sports  hall  on  Amager, a small
island east of Central Copenhagen. The
facilities (toilets, baths, etc.) were
good, in fact as good as  anyone could
hope,  and  the  hall was very big, »CL8:in
fact there were plenty  of tables left
unused  despite  the  large  number of
attendees  (I'm not  sure of the exact
number, but the impression I  got  was
that around 200 people showed up).»CL1:  In
other words  the party hall itself was
very well chosen, however its location
did leave something to be desired. The
nearest pizza  place  was  miles away,
which bugged us somewhat, and shopping
facilities of any  kind were  hard  to
find and  took  a  while  to get to as
well.   The    building    itself  was
constructed  much  like  a maze,  with
pointless dead ends,  locked doors all
around you  and  never-ending hallways
everywhere. So  although  there WAS  a
cafeteria  IN the  building,  it  took
about TEN MINUTES to  get  there.  And
when you did get there, you would turn
back  immediately   upon   seeing  the
ridiculous prices.

»CL7:The party progressed without  too many
unfortunate incidents,  such as people
hurling on  the big  screen,  knocking
over speakers, and  so on. »CL1:So  in that
respect you could say it did get a bit
boring. At one  point  we were  forced
to drive around  the hall in  shopping
carts  to   keep    our   spirits  up.
Surprisingly  enough,  the  organizers
didn't   mind.  It   was nice  to  see
relaxed, laid-back organizing (such as
you'd   see   at    a     party   like
Scenemeeting),  really  a   breath  of
fresh  air   when   you're   used   to
dealing with  the fascists who run The
Party in Aars. They  did not, however,
allow us to enter in the  wild  compo.
And we had  the  perfect entry; it was
me, being spun around  in  a  shopping
cart,  until  I  got  sick at 120 RPM.
Wicked, hm?  Anyway,  we  were  denied
this,  and   there  was  much  relief.

»CL8:The deadline for some  of  the  compos
was a  little  early,  since the party
was  shorter  than  most, but  on  the
other   hand    the   organizers  were
reasonably flexible.»CL1:  They didn't come
dressed up  in riot gear,  they didn't
call the police  the  minute we opened
our mouths,  and  they  didn't mind if
an entry was  an  hour or  so late, so
long as they  had time to enter it. We
were  even told  that  they'd  arrange
any compo  as  long  as  they received
enough  entries  for  it.   This   was
impressive  and  again  added  to  the
relaxed, friendly  atmosphere which is
essential to a good party.

»CL7:Now for the  really good part and  the
really  bad part: drinking was allowed
but smoking was not. Any smoker  knows
that a cigarette hanging casually from
the side of your mouth  makes you look
twice as  mature and  intelligent,»CL1: and
any smoking coder  knows that  Asm-Pro
simply  doesn't  work  if  you are not
smoking at least once every half hour.
Besides, it really disrupts everything
if you  have  to  leave  your computer
every once  in a while to satisfy your
urges. So  why  weren't  we allowed to
smoke? Well,  being a  civilized human
being, the first thing  you do  before
you  light  a  cigarette is search for
no-smoking signs. If you see none, you
ask the people  sitting next to you if
they mind, assuming  you don't already
know whether  or not  they do. If they
don't,  you go ahead. So  where's  the
problem?

»CL8:Apparently  one of the  organizers had
a problem  with  smoke.  A  really old
jerk, probably  a   PC scener (yeah, I
know,  there's no such thing, but I am
TRYING to be kind  here). »CL1: He  wanders
the hall, telling everyone to take his
filthy  habits out  into  the hallway.
So, we head  for  the  hallway, find a
nice  stationary  ashtray  (apparently
people  are  expected  to smoke here),
and are  greeted  by a  makeshift sign
saying "Smoking by stairs" with a hand
pointing towards the stairs. »CL7:The  mood
is  slowly  switching   from   annoyed
towards  agitated,   so  we ignore the
sign (and the seemingly dead Norwegian
on the floor) and  grudgingly  do  our
thing, »CL1:all the while  wondering why we
weren't  allowed to do this inside the
large and well-ventilated  partyplace.
This   negative    attitude    towards
smokers  really  puts a damper  on any
party, no  matter  how well organized.
I mean,  if  it's   the   smell   that
bothers  anyone,  they  should enforce
mandatory daily showers  for everyone.
If  it's   a    health   issue,  well,
everyone is filling up on  cola, beer,
booze  and   junk  food  anyway   (and
probably   plain  junk  as  well). But
never mind.

»CL8:Let's  not  be all-negative here.  The
entrance  fee  was  reasonable, around
100 DKK which equals about  25 DM or 9
UKP for  those  interested. »CL1:There were
no prizes  on  the  other hand, except
painted plastic  ducks, but this is as
much  a  good  thing as   it is  a bad
thing. It's  nice to  go  home  with a
trophy  to  put  on  your shelf rather
than  a  slightly heavier wallet which
will  eventually  be  restored  to its
natural vacuum-sealed state anyway. In
addition, I gather it promotes genuine
competition and makes votefaking  that
much less justified  for those who are
sinister enough to  do it in the first
place (hello Loonies).

The equipment was  quite excellent,  a
large big screen, large speakers, etc.
Sadly, the organizers  didn't know how
to operate  all  of it. Here's  a hint
guys: although the  bass  knob  can be
turned all  the way up and  the treble
knob can be turned  all  the way down,
it  doesn't  have to  be that way! But
whatever,  »CL7:it  wouldn't  have  been so
bad if  we  could  have   avoided  the
infantile   Loonies      with    their
supposed-to-be-annoying-in-a-funny-way
Livitas  music.  »CL1:While  we're  on  the
topic, Leet  Radio  was there, playing
their gabba-hip-hop music or  whatever
it was. It  was  ok  FOR A WHILE,  but
really  not  diverse  enough   to   be
interesting.  But  then  again,  we in 
IRIS expect scene music when we go  to
a scene  party.  So   while   slightly
disappointing  and  annoying   to  us,
others  may  have been  delighted. Who
knows?

»CL8:The compos  were  good, though, and as
usual  there  was  an  oldsk00l compo,
which  we  think  is   a   more   than
excellent  initiative.  »CL1:A   hand-drawn
graphics competition was held as well,
another   original   idea,   involving
actual  pencil   sketches   and   real
paintings, delivered physically to the
organizers, then  scanned and shown on
the   big  screen.  The  usual  compos
had  their   usual,   not     entirely
overwhelming  number of  entries,  and
they were  enjoyable.  The HD-throwing
compo was  cancelled  though  (much to 
the   dismay   of   Ransom/IRIS    who 
possesses   an   unusual  talent   for
pitching  retired   hardware    across
football   fields),  but  there was no
appropriate location for it anyway.

»CL7:With that, we left  the  party and the
capital, heading for home. We were, on
the whole, satisfied,  although  TRSAC
Autumn was by no means the best  party
ever. »CL1:It  ranks somewhere between "ok"
and "good" (which is not to  be  taken
lightly, of  course).  We are  sure to
remember  a  few  moments  from  there
when we grow  old  and grey. So thumbs
somewhere between  up  and down.  Eh..
