
»CL6:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                       Trsac 2001 Party Report
»CL6:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                  Written by »CL5:Corial »CL6:of »CL5:Focus Design

»CL1:Welcome to my little party report from
TRSAC Autumn. Today  is Monday 15th of
October, which means  that  the  party
ended yesterday. I am  still suffering
from a severe lack  of  sleep and this
day  has   been   declared    official
chill-out day.

TRSAC Autumn was a  party  that  I had
been  looking  forward  to for at long
time,  since  »CL6:I missed Mekka/Symposium
this year, and I was  not disappointed
in any way.»CL1:  The  party  was  held  on







Amager/Copenhagen  and  »CL7:Optima  and  I
decided to drive to the party place in
his car.»CL1: This  was  probably  not  the
wisest thing to do since neither of us
really knows  Copenhagen  and we spent
quite some time just finding the party
place.   Nevertheless,  we  found  the
hall, which  had  room  for  some  200
people and  we  even  found  a parking
place near the entrance. We were there
about 45  minutes  after the doors had
been  opened  and  not too many people
had arrived at that time, which  meant
that we could  easily  pick some  nice
seats near the bigscreen  and somewhat
away from the loudspeakers.
»PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»             »PIC:4.iff»







However,  some  of  the  Danish  Amiga
sceners were already  there and it was
jolly good  to  meet  them again.  The
atmosphere  was  very    relaxed   and
friendly from  the  beginning and that
was  quite  nice . »CL8:Unfortunately,  the
party  place  itself  was  on  the 2nd
floor  and  we  had to struggle to get
our computers up there.»CL1: We brought our
2 PC's and  Optima  also  brought  his
A4000 because he  had  to  polish  his
"Bizarre Love Triangle" a  little.  We
decided  to  go  get  something to eat
after that struggle, but the cafeteria
sucked  pretty  badly - the organizers
really should  not be blamed  for that
at  all, since  they  had   absolutely
nothing  to  do with it.  Anyways,  we
found a nice  little pizza place where
Ib,  Curt Cool,  Presence,  and a  few
others  had  already thrown themselves
at some good-looking pizzas.

With our  stomachs  full, we made  our
way back to  the  party place where we
found  the  weird  people from Iris on
the  other  side  of our table - well,
someone had to sit at  the same  table
as them and this  time it was we,  who
were the  unlucky ones. :D  Naah, they
are very nice  people!»CL7: The  first  day
was  also  the  day   where  Leetradio
played  a   massive  live DJ-set   for
several  hours.»CL1:  Some   people  really
hated  the music,  but  I  enjoyed  it
quite  a  lot.  They   played  several
different  techno  styles  and  it was
nice to have some  noise to your usual
party  coding  and   party   drinking.
Before  and   after the DJ-set, we saw
demos  on  the  bigscreen,  which  was
nice.  Unfortunately, I was  not  able
to stay  up for too long, since I  had
been working  on a school  project the
whole week and  had  a bit of sleeping
to  catch  up  with.  »CL8:Fortunately, the
sleeping   facilities  were  extremely
good and it  was  easy to find a place
to sleep.»CL1:
Day 2 of  the  party   was  the  usual
deadline/drinking/competing  day. More
people had come  during the night  and
even more people  came during day 2. I
am not sure how many  people  actually
showed up,  but  I  think  it was cool
that  »CL7:so  many    nationalities   were
present.»CL1:  Quite a   few   people  were
working  on  their  releases   at  the
party place  and  it  was nice to walk
around  and  peek over their shoulders
to  see  what  was  going to be in the
different compos. I think that the mp3
compo was the first  of the compos and
the music was indeed above average.  I
did not hear  the  rest  of  the music
compos, but I  am  sure you have heard
the  music  yourself  by  now :). »CL6: The
contributions to the different graphic
compos were  not  too good. »CL1: The  hand
drawn graphics-compo was  probably the
best one.

The  first demo  compo  was  oldskool.
Slummy was  the  only contributor  and
some  people were nice enough to carry
»CL1:a sleeping  Arcane/Haujobb up  to  the
bigscreen, so the stoned guy would not
miss  out  on  the  live   showing  of
Slummys  demo.  Cytron  found   him  a
sleeping  bag   so    it    would   be
comfortable for him to watch demos :). 
»CL7:The Spaceballs  demo   was  very  well
accepted  and  Kures music kicked some
very serious butt!»CL1: Actually, when  the
demo was run the »CL1:second time in a row,
a  larger  bunch  of  people   started
dancing and  head  banging in front of
the  bigscreen. »CLA: Macaw/Novocaine»CL8: tried
to climb onto  one of the loudspeakers
- but failed, though it was a nice try
:).»CL1: Darkhawk  showed  the  world,  how
proper head banging should be done and
we all respect  him  even more now. It
was great  fun  and  the style was set
for the  rest of the events. I do  not
remember  the  order  of the different
intro/demo compos - sorry  about that.

The   Amiga    intro     compo     was
minimalistic. »CL7:Loonies  tried to finish
an intro but had  to postpone  it  and
instead   they  competed   with,  hum,
something   weird   in   4k  :).»CL1:  Iris
competed with a  textwriter  and  they
deserved to be rewarded a duck,  which
had been painted  partly black :). The
PC-intro competition was very good and
had  some  very  fine  openGL releases
with Alien Prophets as winners.
The Amiga  demo competition  also  had
some nice  releases  as you have seen.
My  old  friends from Gunnars Farvebio
took the 3rd  place with  Megademo $D,
which  contained  some nice "oldskool"
effects,   among   others   the   nice
"gravity vector  inside cube"-part and
they really deserved the bronzed duck.
»CL7:"Bizarre     Love    Triangle"    from
Haujobb/Depth/TRSI was  rewarded  with
the silver duck.

»CL1:Optima  made a  demo,
which  also  contained   some   lovely
oldskool effects. Actually, this  demo
is a bit like  his Depth demo "Idoru".
The  music  in  the  demo  is  just so
great!! I was credited as coder in the
demo,  even  though  Optima  had  just
remixed the blur  in the end-part,  so
you really should credit  him  for all
the code. TBL  competed  with a  co-op
demo with Up Rough  and  it  contained
a  very powerful  module and design. I
had expected some  wonderful code from
Kalms, but I  guess  he saves that for
later use.
         »PIC:3.iff»










I am not sure what  to write about the
demo - I  had expected they would keep
up their fantastic style from Rain and
Perfect Circle, but ok, I  know  it is
nice   to   do   something   different
occasionally.  »CL6:The  PC-demo compo
was   very great.»CL1:   The  releases
were of  a  standard, which is not too
often seen. I  know  that  you  do not
like  the  PC  and PC-demos,  but  you
really  ought   to   check   out   the
releases. (Especially if  you  are the
lucky owner of a very fast pc!)

Well, after these  compos it  was time
for   the    wild-demo    competition.
Everybody was quite drunk at this time
and  had  a wonderful time. I think it
is great that  even though people were
drunk,  »CL8:the  atmosphere  was  still so
very  pleasant  and  I  enjoyed  every
minute  of  it.»CL1:  I   think  that   the
highlight of the wild-demo competition
was the "wild demo" by Slummy  and Co.
Everything   was    planned    in  the
slightest  detail :).  Slummy,  Arcane
(yes, he was actually  also awake from
time to time), »CL6:Nico (a Danish guy) sat
on chairs  in front  of the  bigscreen
and smoked some  weed while they  were
singing some Norwegian karaoke of "»CLA:All
that she wants»CL6:" from Ace of Base. »CL1:Leia
contributed with her  so  very  lovely
dancing  on  a  wagon also in front of
the bigscreen.»CL1: It  is  sad  that  this
wonderful  live-act  did  not  win the
competition - it  was so, so funny :).
Well,  actually  the   Soopadoopa  PS2
demo  with  coding  by  Craft/Fudge (a
legendary   Danish  PC   crew)  really
deserved the goldduck! Right after the
wild demo-compo Iris  also carried out
a  live-act  and  actually, it  had  a
theme:  Ransom  was  going to spin the
poor Dr. Doom  around  in  a  shopping
cart  until  he puked.  Unfortunately,
they did not  succeed and I only think
that  it  was  an ok  act,  when  Leia
tipped  over   the  shopping  cart  so
Dr. Doom  fell  onto  the   floor  :),
well-done, Leia!

Ok, I am  almost  done with my writing
so please mobilize some energy for the
last bytes of text. »CL8:TRSAC Autumn was a
real scene-party with the right people
and the right  atmosphere.»CL1: I  am  glad
that I participated  because  this was
really a  nice  experience  and I hope
(and I am confident)  that  even  more
scene-people  will   participate  next
year. »CL8:I have  not  found  any negative
things to say about the party and I am
very much looking forward to visit the
TRSAC  Autumn   next  year.»CL1:  Well-done
Booster and Co. Greetings to everyone,
who  was  there  and I hope to see you
all next year.



            »PIC:4.iff»
