
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
»CL0:                      Wrong Way - What Is The Scene About?
»CL6:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Written by  »CL4:Adonis »CL6:of »CL4:IRIS

»CL1:Here is yet another  critical  article
about  the  scene  that we have today.
First, I  want  you  to  take a closer
look  at  the upcoming statements from
me.

»CL8:Pictures  have  been taken of a scener
giving another  scener  a blowjob at a
recently held party.  »CL1:

Sceners seem to get  angry  when  they
are with their friends, start to fight
and seriously try  to hurt each other.







If I  recall  right,   he   grabbed  a
grill-something-tool and  tried to hit
someone.
- »CL5:MS 2001


»CL1:A scener asked if  his friend dared to
jump  on a car. He  did  not hesitate,
jumped onto  it, started  jumping, and
smashed  the  front  window   when  he
wanted to jump down again.
- »CL5:Symphony 2001

»CL1:A  guy  almost  drowned  at a party in
Estonia,  while being drunk,  but they
managed  to  get  him  out of the cold
water.
- »CL5:Phat Party 2001

»CL1:A party in  Poland   had   some  crazy
competitions,  one  of  them  being to
demolish a public telephone as much as
possible until only the microphone was
working.
- »CL5:Symphony 2001

»CL7:Only 4 episodes are mentioned here and
they   were    taken    from   several
countries,   so   the   situation   is
practically  the  same  all  over  the
globe.»CL1: So, this article  is not  meant
to nail a  specific country, but to be
a  reminder  and  a   close   look  in
retrospect.  Try  to  be  honest  with
yourself and judge  from what you have
been  reading   in    this    article.

»CL5:       What is the scene about?

»CL8:Do we  really  need  to act like these
strange  nerds,  who have yet to  grow
up? »CL1:Imagine  yourself  as  a  "normal"
person who  does  not have anything to
do  with  the scene,  and then imagine
you were at such a party. What kind of
impression  would you get, if  someone
pulled out his dick and had a blowjob?

What  would  you  think  if you had to
pull up  a guy from the water, because
he  was  too  drunk  to help  himself.

How about this? A person dares  you to
demolish a car. Would  you say yes, no
matter what? I do not think you would,
because you  have  nothing you need to
prove.

All  the strange things we do are done
to make  sure  that people know who we
are, are  they not? Do we really  need
it? I am  not so sure; we did not need
it back in  the old days. Surely there
were some  of it, but  it  was  no way
near as  violent as it is today. »CL7:I  am
convinced  that  we  will  see more of
these  childish  things  in the future
and I am  also  convinced   that   the
intensity of  these acts  will keep on
increasing,  until people realize that
we are going in the wrong direction.»CL1: I
know  that  life  goes   on  and  that
people  evolve as  well,  but  we just
need to  be  sure that the development
of  the  scene  is  going in the right
direction.

»CL5:              The future

»CL8:If this continues with the speed  that
we have  seen the last few years, then
soon we will not  be able to recognize
the scene that  we have today.»CL1:  People
will not  attend  parties  to  present
their productions  and  they  will not
discuss  scene-related   matters.  No,
they will  gather  in these big halls,
booze  their  brains out, and  arrange
some  sort  of  drunken   competition.
People will  do  more  and  more to be
recognized. They  will  do whatever it
takes to  be in the middle of the mob.

So, now it is your turn, try  to  look
back and  remember some  of the stupid
episodes you have  witnessed or been a
victim of. »CL8:Then  ask  yourself  if you
want to  be  a   part  of this kind of
scene or you think we need to find our
way back to the right path,»CL1: so that we
can  find  the   right  direction  and
evolve   more  like   real    sceners.

»CL7:I would very much like to get comments
on this article, since I think that we
are  moving  in  a wrong direction and
that we  need  to  be aware what might
happen if we  do not see this in time.»CL1:
I might be very wrong about this and I
would indeed  like  to be corrected if
that is the case.


You  can  send  your comment or even a
reply  to  this  article  by  using my
e-mail or snail-mail address, both can
be  found  in  the  article  "Address"
elsewhere in this mag.

        »PIC:3.iff»
