
                         A Prodigy Interview

                   THE ALTERNATIVE DANCE SUPERGROUP

        Almost  without lifting a finger, alternative dance giants The
Prodigy  achieved  an important breakthrough in 1995.  Even though all
they  really  did was release one single, Poison, 1995 was a year when
the  group  consolidated  their  position as one of the UK's key acts,
with  sales  of  their  second  album,  1994's  Music  For  The Jilted
Generation, reaching a million units worldwide.

        Meanwhile,  a  string  of  excellent  live  appearances,  most
notably  a show-stealing performance at Glastonbury, saw them complete
a five-year journey from bedroom rave act to post-dance supergroup.

        The  Prodigy also decided at the end of the year to re-sign to
XL  Recordings following the completion of their initial contract with
the  company.   That  ended almost a year of industry speculation that
the  group  were about to succumb to one of the various majors chasing
them.

        Founder  and  guiding  light  Liam  Howlett  says, "One of the
labels  after  us was Island and, to be honest, it would have been the
only  one  I  really  would  have gone with, because I like the people
there  and the artists they have.  But, in the end, I decided why mend
something  that's  not  broken?  I just didn't want to get involved in
that bigger picture.  I have complete freedom to do what I want at XL,
which I might not have somewhere else, so why change things?" All this
settled,   Howlett   can   now   concentrate   on   following  up  the
groundbreaking  Music  For The Jilted Generation.  The first step is a
new single, Firestarter, released next month and certain to add to The
Prodigy's tally of eight top 15 hit records in the UK.

        Originally,  the  group had planned to have an album ready for
release now.  "In the end, it didn't happen," says Howlett.  "We spent
last  year  doing live work and bringing that side out instead.  Also,
when  the  last album took off, we decided to really tour it out, so I
decided to do the album for this summer."

        However,   the  fruits  of  that  live  work  are  evident  on
Firestarter  which  features  the  band's MC and dancer Keith Skint on
vocals,  a  development that parallels the importance that the group's
other  members have assumed on stage.  "I wrote the song and it really
just  needed  something  else rather than a sample.  Keith is a really
good  performer and he'd done some vocals on Poison so we tried it and
it worked.  It's quite sort of punk," says Howlett.

        The  single,  according  to  XL's  managing  director  Richard
Russell,  is  typical  of  Howlett.   "From their first hit, Charly in
1990,  Liam  has  had  this  great thing of accidental hooks," Russell
says.  "He wouldn't be thinking in terms of pop but would come up with
these great hooks for his records just instinctively."

        However,  even  given  these gifts, it would have been a brave
man  who  would  have predicted back in 1991 that the Essex rave group
with  a  line  in hooky singles would, five years later, turn into the
internationally successful album-selling monster that The Prodigy have
become today.

        Russell  ascribes a lot of the group's longevity to a sense of
direction  and  certainty  in Howlett, who eventually began distancing
himself  from the rave scene that had spawned the band and concentrate
instead  on wooing the new audience the group were attracting from the
rock  scene.   "For me, the whole turning point of the band was when I
got  sick  of the rave scene.  It got easy to do a track, get a catchy
sample  and  whack  it  in  the  charts.   It didn't interest me, so I
stopped  and  started  listening  to  lots  of different things," says
Howlett.

        The  group's  subsequent  success  in building a new sound and
audience  sowed  the  seeds  of  what's known as the alternative dance
scene.

        Howlett  is  an  enthusiast  for  many  of the bands that have
followed  in  The  Prodigy's  wake, singling out Coldcut's Ninja Tunes
label and The Chemical Brothers.

        "A  lot  of  our  new  stuff is like that," says Howlett.  "We
obviously  started to head in that direction on the last LP.  The good
thing  about  the  dance scene now is that it's really open and people
have real respect for different types of music."

        But  Howlett  is  wary of being typecast as a techno boff.  "I
don't  want  to  be scene as futuristic or some type of techno purist.
Most  of the inspiration I pick up is from old rare groove records and
hip hop.  I mean, I hate Kraftwerk," he says.

        In  keeping with this technological ambivalence, the equipment
Howlett uses to produce his records remains essentially unchanged from
his  early  records.   "I'm  not  one  of  these  people  who convince
themselves  that they need loads of new equipment or read magazines to
see  what's coming out.  There's a new analogue keyboard that I bought
last  year but, in general, I just prefer working with a sampler which
I've always done," he says.

        In  terms of the long-term future, Howlett has few fixed plans
for  his  group.   "We'll  continue  as long as we're progressing," he
says,  also  aware that the group have already come a lot further than
most  of  their contemporaries, "We started as a rave act and tried to
turn  it around.  There aren't many other acts that really pulled that
off."

re-edited by ctp/mawi^underground
underground production 1997

