
                     Dotmusic Talent:THE PRODIGY

                          25 NOVEMBER 1996.

        (with 'MUSIC FOR THE JILTED GENERATION' as 'subject')
                  to order the band's current album.

        Two  number one singles on the trot have confirmed The Prodigy
as  the  hottest  dance  property  in the UK.  They've also become the
hippest  act  in  the  country, appealing to everyone from streetsmart
club  types  to  dyed-in-the-wool  punks.   But, while Firestarter and
Breathe  have  made  the  band one of the most recognisable in the UK,
they  still  seem  like  an overnight sensation to many.  In fact, the
Essex  band have had eight Top 10 hits in total while Breathe is their
10th  consecutive  Top  15  entry.And in a year when alternative dance
music  has  crossed  over  like  never  before,  The  Prodigy  are the
undisputed  leaders  of a pack of top-notch acts including Underworld,
Orbital  and  The  Chemical  Brothers.   It  is their across-the-board
appeal  that separates them from the rest of the crop.  Everyone loves
them.   Kerrang!   editor  Phil Alexander says, "They really appeal to
our  readers  because  they're  such  an exciting live act.  And their
attitude is also very attractive to rock fans".  Melody Maker editor -
Alan  Jones  agrees, "They're more rock'n'roll than rock'n'roll".  The
band's  mainman  Liam  Howlett  has  always  been  eager to break down
boundaries  by  working with a wide variety of artists.  This includes
collaborations  with  Skin  from Skunk Anansie and Kula Shaker already
this year, and the fruits of those labours could be seen on their next
album  which  is slated for next March.  Although The Prodigy's appeal
to  Kerrang!   readers  is  obvious, their market is much wider.  Emma
Cochrane,  deputy editor of teen mag Smash Hits, believes the band are
perfect  for  its  readers,  too, if not for their parents.  She says,
"They're  definitely a Smash Hits band.  They're great to party to and
I know little kids love jumping up and down to them because they're so
exciting."  But  mums and dads think differently.  She says, "We get a
lot  of complaints from parents when we feature them, because they say
they're  really  offensive  and  scary." XL managing director, Richard
Russell,   who  signed  The  Prodigy  seven  years  ago,  believes  he
understands  their  appeal.  He says, "They have two great frontmen in
Keith  and Maxim, who's really going to become a face with the Breathe
video.  But they're also both innovative and populist." The manic-eyed
and  strangely  coiffured Keith Skint explains a lot of their populism
and  his mad bastard antics appeal to the child in every adult and the
nutter in small children.  But what is surprising is the fact that the
two  singles  which  have brought them their biggest success have been
among  their  noisiest.Russell says, "They're not a very whistle-along
kind of band, but they really do connect with a lot of people.  I feel
Liam  as  a  producer  and  musician  is  just  a  genius.  He's doing
something  that's  completely  sonically  different  and  out  there."
Kerrang!'s  Alexander  adds,  "The  Prodigy  are at the forefront of a
breakdown  of  boundaries.   There's  a  point  where the heavy end of
techno  meets  the  industrial  end of metal and The Prodigy are right
there  at the cutting edge." Another factor in the rise of The Prodigy
is  their  excellent  live  performances.   They were the highlight of
Glastonbury  in  1994 and were only let down at this year's Reading by
poor  sound quality.  The criticism in the past of dance acts was that
they  couldn't  do  it live and were over-reliant on backing tapes and
technical  trickery.   None  of  this  applies  to  The  Prodigy, says
Russell.   "The  band  have  never done things the rock way," he says.
"When they started, they'd record during the week and then play a rave
at  the  weekend.   They  never got caught up in the slow timeframe of
rock  and have basically been on tour for six years.  They have played
everywhere,  which  explains  why  they're huge in places like Poland,
Iceland,  Scandinavia  and  Germany." The next step is for the band to
crack the US, where they've achieved cult status, but have yet to have
a  hit.   Russell is currently in the US finalising a "tripartite deal
between  XL,  Mute  and  a  large  US  company",  which  will put more
promotional   clout  behind  the  band.   And  Firestarter,  which  is
currently  being  repromoted in the US, will be added to MTV's Buzzbin
on December 9, which could give them the kickstart they need.  Russell
says, "The general feeling is that Firestarter could be a very big hit
in  the  States.   The  alternative market is very staid there and The
Prodigy  and acts like them could fill the gap.  "The US has never had
a  mainstream dance scene as such, which explains why The Prodigy have
never  had  crossover success there.  But Firestarter has already sold
80,000 copies through word-of-mouth, which shows they have a promising
fanbase  to  build  on.   And,  when  the  sight  of Keith Skint going
doolally  on  the  promo  starts being beamed into the nation's homes,
it's only a matter of time before American kids go mad for them, too.



re-edited by ctp/mawi^underground
underground production 1997

