
                    An Interwiev With The Prodigy
                     about firestarter and others

        Back with 'Firestarter', their first new material in two and a
half   years!    Back   with  a  reputation  as  the  wildest  fastest
turbo-nutter  punk-dance  outfit in Britain!  But they're already back
on holiday ….it must be great being </font><font size=5>THE PRODIGY

        Halfway  up  a  snow-covered mountain, in a picturesque, Swiss
ski  resort  not  far from Lake Geneva, The Prodigy are playing house.
Keith Flint greets guests at their luxury, three-storey, wooden chalet
fresh  from a stint in the sauna.  Dressed casually in jogging bottoms
and  jumper,  his  multi-coloured  spikes  of hair drooping lamely, he
looks  nothing  like  the  demented  dancer who fronts the band's live
show,  or  rolls  around  the  stage  in  a transparent, plastic ball.
Cuddling  the  chalet's  resident  pet,  a  white,  Persian cat called
Figaro,  Keith  slumps  down on a sofa and raises his legs to show off
some  designer  slippers.  "Air Perrys, if you don't mind," he demurs,
in  a  very  well-mannered  voice.  "Everyone on the slopes is wearing
them this season." The Prodigy have come to the tourist town of Leysin
to  feature  in  the  second  series of Channel 4's snowboarding show,
Boardstupid.   Other artists invited to spend a similar four days here
include   Goldie,   who   arrives  tomorrow,  The  Chemical  Brothers.
Jamiroquai  and Gabrielle.  That The Prodigy are first on is a mark of
their  well-publicised  interest  the  sport.   The whole band took up
snowboarding  two  years ago, after songwriter Liam Howlett bought his
first  board.   "I  went round Liam's house one day." says Keith, "and
caught  him  carpet-surfing.  He was in the lounge, standing on what I
thought  was  his"  nan's  ironing  board.   I  told  him to sit down.
breathe  deeply and I'd make him a nice cup of tea.  Then he explained
what  it  was  and showed me a couple of videos.  Straight away, I was
hooked."  Since then, The Prodigy have been to France, Switzerland and
Colorado  in  search  of  the  perfect  piste.   Liam,  who  has  been
practising  on  dry  slopes in England, is probably the best, although
all  admit to being pretty, poor, thanks to a relentless tour schedule
over  the  last  18  months.   What  The  Prodigy  lack in experience,
however,  they make up for in enthusiasm.  "On our first day," recalls
Liam, "we were so keen that we started riding down the mountain before
finding  out the route.  God knows where we went.  It took us hours to
get  back.   At  one stage, when we were miles off- piste, I seriously
considered  absailing.   "I  enjoy  the adventure of cross-country.  I
like  being  out  in  the  wilds, reading the terrain and the chaos of
trying to avoid trees.  It's a lot like motorcross, which I used to be
into,  but  without  the noise and fumes." Clearly, Keith is as mad on
the  slopes  as  he  is on the stage.  The other members' snowboarding
styles  also  reflect  their personalities.  Liam, who grew up on BMXs
and  skateboards, prefers the technical aspect of leaming to do tricks
and  jumps.  Maxim Reality, the band's MC, is into the adrenaline rush
of  fast, downhill speeds.  Leeroy, Keith's 6'4" dance partner, enjoys
the  challenge and sense of achievement.  All share the same pet hates
–  'fashionable',  fluorescent gear (none will wear the designer label
clothes  they  get sent for free), show-off snowboarders and, worst of
all,  skiers.   "  We  don't get involved in the rivalry with skiers,"
claims  Keith,  unconvincingly.   "At  least,  we  don't  hit  them on
purpose, it's only 'cos we're crap.  Alfhough if I am going to collide
with a skier, I'll make sure my elbows go out.

        "I ran into one woman skier in Colorado and got lodged between
her  legs.   I'm  not  sure  how  it  happened, but I got stuck facing
backwards,  crouching  down.   We  must  have  gone  a  hundred  yards
together.  When I stood up, people were holding up cards and clapping.
They  thought  we  were  the next Torvill and Dean." The Prodigy are a
band  on  a boys-own adventure.  Tight-knit and self- sufficient, they
never  seem  to  tire of each other's company.  On tour.  they travel,
hang  out  and explore foreign cities together.  On evenings off, they
go out to clubs or concerts with one another.  All still live in their
hometown  of  Braintree  in Essex, while Keith and Liam's last holiday
was  spent  snowboarding together in Colorado.  The band's line-up has
remained unchanged since the summer of 1991, when The Prodigy scored a
Top   Three   hit  with  their  second  release,  the  Public  Service
advertisement-sampling,  rave  record  'Charly'.  A manic, E-infested,
parent-scaring single, focus for the exploitation of rave culture, and
19-year-old Liam the very scene that had inspired him.

        Little   over   a  year  later,  The  Prodigy's  debut  album,
Experience,  a  complex  mix of samples and breakbeats, was proof that
the  band  had moved on, although still the rave tag stuck.  Moreover,
their  music  remained  slightly out of step with fashion.  It was too
mainstream  for  the  techno  purists,  too  hardcore for the pop lot.
Despite  continued  commercial  success,  The  Prodigy stayed industry
outsiders.   But  if the press didn't want to write about them and the
radio  wouldn't  play their records, the band could keep in touch with
their  fans  through  their  shows.   At  a  time when most dance acts
thought  that  playing  live meant miming to an E'd-up crowd on a tiny
club  stage,  the  size  of  The Prodigy's audience allowed them large
capacity  venues  favoured  by  guitar  bands  and, instead of relying
solely  on  a  light show and on a proper performance.  So Boardstupid
thought  they'd  have  no problem performing at a 500-capacity club in
Leysin.   However, since all of their equipment is in Australia (where
the  band  recently  took  part  in  the  Big  Day Out, the Antipodean
equivalent of Lollapolooza) the programme's producers tried to come up
with  an  alternative,  suggesting  that  The Prodigy should record an
acoustic  session  inside  the  chalet.   "Someone obviously forgot to
mention  that  we're not too impressive unplugged." laughs Liam.  "Had
they  warned  us  in  advance, Leeroy would have brought along his tap
shoes.   That's  about as good as it gets." Unfortunately, getting out
of their TV interview, scheduled for tomorrow morning, is not quite as
easy.  At one end of the chalet's spacious sitting-room, the finishing
touches  are  being  put  to a makeshift studio set.  False walls have
been  filled with insulating foam.  burnt to give a 'cratered' effect,
then  painted a lurid mix of scarlet, lime green, bright blue and acid
pink.   "If  you  could turn this set into fabric," notes Keith wryly,
crossing  the  purple  carpet and slumping down on a brightly-coloured
sofa,  "you'd  probably  make  the  top  ski  outfit of all time." The
Prodigy  finally  shed  the last of their rave roots in 1993 when they
began  working on their second album, Music For The Jilted Generation.
"I stopped writing all that hands-in-the-air bollocks," explains Liam.
"The  spirit  of  the rave scene stayed in that it was still good-time
music  you could dance to, but the songs had a new attitude and energy
and  hardness.   It  wasn't  a  conscious  decision to change.  I just
wasn't listening to much dance music anymore and most techno bored me.
Rock  became  a  bigger  influence.   I liked its energy.  I think The
Smashing  Pumpkins  are  wicked  and  I  was  really  into  the Chilli
Peppers." In addition, Maxim had turned Liam onto Wu Tang Clan, Leeroy
liked  '60s  soul  and  Keith  discovered Stone Temple Pilots.  Guitar
samples,  deep  dub,  jungle  and hip hop were packed into a string of
successful  singles.  'No Good (Start The Dance)', 'One Love', 'Voodoo
People'  and  anti-Criminal Justice Bill anthem 'Their Law', featuring
Pop  Will  Eat  Itself,  all  made  the  Top 20.  Inevitably, critical
plaudits  followed  with the band being nominated for a Mercury Award.
Meanwhile,  The  Prodigy's live show had absorbed all the attitude and
energy  of  the music.  "Go to a Sepultura concert," says Keith.  "and
it  might  be  loud and the singer may say he wants to go out and kill
children,  but  it's  not  necessarily hard.  Our show kicks ass.  The
crowd  really  let  off.   They  jump around manically for a couple of
hours  and  they remember that night for a long time to come.  You can
sit  around  at  home  and  listen to music for years, but it'll never
drive  you  to  leap around the lounge like that.  "The real challenge
for  us  is  to  rock  people  who think they don't want to be rocked.
Before  The  Prodigy,  I  used  to  hang  out  with  a bunch of strict
metalheads.   We'd  go  to  real  rock  venues  and if I danced, I was
dissed.  I was suppressed by my mates.  You could smoke a ton of draw,
drink  14  Special Brews and fall over, but if you shuffled your feet,
that  was  the  end  of  you.  Now metalheads come to our concerts and
don't  notice they're not listening to traditional music.  "They start
moving  around  without even realising.  Suddenly they're like, 'Oh my
God,  what  am I doing?  I'm dancing!" "The live act is what we're all
about.   We've dedicated the last five years of our lives to it, so we
don't  just  want a polite round of applause at the end of a show.  We
want  to  stir  people  up  so  much that they have to be carried out,
exhausted,  on  a stretcher.  To watch thousands of Oasis fans trample
down  500  tents to get into our field at Glastonbury was a dream come
true."  The Prodigy's triumphant Glastonbury gig, easily the highlight
of last year's festival, altered the band's status overnight.  For the
first  time,  they became both a mainstream act and achingly hip.  "We
actually asked to play Glastonbury the previous year," says Liam, "but
the  organisers  wouldn't let us.  They said we weren't big enough and
got  Orbital  instead.  We just wanted to take part.  We offered to do
it  for  free,  even pay our own expenses.  but they preferred to bore
the audience with some so-called 'cool bands.  That really annoyed me.
If  people  want  to  see  a  nice  light  show,  they  can  go to the
Planetarium.   I  don't like putting other bands down.  but you'd need
to  be  on  30  mushrooms  and  at  least a couple of Acid to have fun
watching  that."  It's  hard to imagine Liam Howlett getting angry, in
spite  of a nose-ring and brightly-dyed hair that make him look almost
as  manic  as  Keith.   He  is  polite.  softly-spoken and thoughtful.
He'll  chat  only  if  Keith  lets  him  get a word in edgeways and is
suprisingly  content  to  let  the  others  speak for him, even on the
subject  of  his  songwriting.  The only business-minded member of the
band,  Liam  insists  that  The  Prodigy  have never sought commercial
success,  and  recently turned down a major label offer, preferring to
stay  on  dance  label  XL  where he has total control over the band's
output.   His only aim, he says, is to write songs that the whole band
are  happy  with  and,  most  importantly, to keep his music credible.
Nevertheless,  platinum  sales of Music For The Jilted Generation have
made Liam more than enough money to indulge his passions for fast cars
and  snowboarding.   He  has  also installed a studio in his converted
coachhouse  home.   It  is  where  he  is  supposed  to  be right now,
finishing  The  Prodigy's  third album, originally due out in May, but
already put back to the summer.  Liam, it seems, is in no hurry.

        Tracks  already and two of them are single.  Anyway, it amuses
me  that  we  became so successful last year without releasing any new
music  at all.  I may wait until 1997 to put out another record.  If I
can  old  out 'til then, we should be massive." Liam describes his new
songs  as  similar to 'Poison', the fifth and final single from Jilted
and The Prodigy's only output last year.

        "There's  definitely  more  attitude  coming  through  in  the
music,"  he  says.   "It's  still  hard, but there's not that many big
breakdowns.    I'm   constantly  coming  across  tunes  that  give  me
inspiration.   That's  why  I'm always out and about watching bands at
festival.   At  the moment.  I'm really into the Chemical Brothers.  I
think that whole breakbeat with acid and hip hop scene is pretty cool.
It's  the  little  things  I  usually pick up on though.  For example,
someone  put  on  a DJ Shadow record this afternoon and the beats were
wicked.  So I stole them.  Shit!  Can I take that back?  Now DJ Shadow
will  be  scouring  our  record  for  his beats.  He'll be ringing up,
demanding royalties."

        Despite  delaying  the release of the album, Liam insists that
he  doesn't  feel  under pressure to better his own success.  The only
pressure,"  he  says.   "is to progress the music.  I want to surprise
people  every  time  a  Prodigy  record  comes  out.   That's what I'm
thinking  while  I write." The band's new single.  'Firestarter'.  Out
this month, contains the first surprise for Prodigy fans.  It features
Keith  Flint on vocals.  "To most people, Keith is just that mad bloke
who  has  been  wiggling  his  legs  about  on stage for the last five
years,"  says  Liam.  "Now he's having a go at some lyrics.  That came
about  by accident.  'Firestarter' was a good instrumental track but I
knew  it  was missing the usual Prodigy hook that sticks in your head.
Keith  came  into  the studio, said he'd like to try singing on it and
went  away  and  wrote  some words.  What's a firestarter?  Isn't that
obvious?   It's  Keith - it's his personality ." 'Firestarter' loops a
distant  'hey, hey, hey' sample from Art Of Noise's '80s pop hit Close
To  The  Edit',  and is slightly slower paced than the bulk of Jilted.
Keith's  twisted lyrics and punky, staccato style recall Flowered Up's
more  animated  moments.   "Who on earth are Flowered Up?" asks Keith.
"We've  never  heard  of  them.   Are they still around?" You remember
Flowered Up.  Third wave of baggy.  One great single ('Weekender') and
a Bez-like attraction called Barry Mooncult who liked dressing up as a
giant  daisy.   They  self-  destructed  after  too many drugs and the
singer ended up flogging dodgy tapes down Camden Market.  "Wow, cool."
exclaims  Keith.   "Not  that  we're  into drugs ourselves.  Honestly.
We've  been  a  drug-free  zone for a number of years now.  That's why
we're  strong on stage, not all mashed up.  I mean, we might be stoned
every  now  and  again - alright.  most of the time - but weed's not a
drug.  It s a plant.  We're on a natural trip, man."

        Tonight,  the  only  stimulant  available is alcohol.  After a
meal  in  the  chalet, The Prodigy head out to a club in Leysin.  They
are  clearly unimpressed by the resort's social facilities.  Yesterday
evening,  they  spent three hours in a "shit restaurant", before going
on  to a hip hop club that turned out to be empty.  Tonight's funkclub
is  scarcely  more  exciting.   The music is barely audible and no-one
dances  all  night.   While the rest of the band drink beer, Liam, who
has  decided  to  rename  the town Bored Stupid, sinks a succession of
straight  tequilas.   The  next  day,  the  TV  production  crew  wait
patiently  for  the  band  to  appear.   They  play Prodigy CDs on the
chalet's  stereo  system  and  dance  about  their  paudy set in Arnet
shades.   It  is  10am.   An hour or so later, Keith, Leeroy and Maxim
stumble  downstairs.   Liam, who has been throwing up for hours, locks
himself in the toilet and refuses to come out.  At noon, the interview
takes  place  without  him.  "So what's happened to Liam?" asks one of
the  programme's  two  presenters.  "We could tell you," begins Keith,
"that  he's  up  in  the  mountains.   getting  in  some early morning
snowboarding.   But  we  won't."  "We'll  just say," continues Leeroy,
"that  he's  upstairs,  praying  to  the  bowl."  Both presenters look
bemused.   "Oh,  okay,"  stammers one.  "Can someone tell us a Prodigy
story then?" Immediately.  Keith is off.  "We were at this festival in
Scotland  last summer, he says.  when these two kids got arrested.  It
was  awful.   One  was caught drinking acid from a car battery and the
other  was  found  breaking up fireworks and snorting the powder." The
presenters  look  appalled.  Conveniently, as soon as the interview is
over,  Liam appears, insisting that an hour up on the slopes will make
him feel better before the flight back to England.  As The Prodigy get
out  of  a  cable  car  at  the  top of the mountain, a Japanese rider
recognises  Leeroy  and points him out to a friend.  Trying to exptain
who he is.  the boy starts singing 'Poison' in an Oriental accent.  "I
don't  betieve  it," cries Keith.  "he really does know who Leeroy is.
Yesterday someone mistook Maxim for Coolio, and Liam got told he looks
like  that bloke from East 17.  It's not nearly as bad as what someone
said  to  me  though." Keith lowers his voice and checks to see who is
around.  "You don't think I look like Leo sayer do you?"



re-edited by ctp/mawi^underground
underground production 1997


