
                     A MTV NEWS Prodigy Interview

                   A prodigy interview with the MTV

        Golf.   It's a gentleman's game.  A game of subtle and elusive
skill.   A game where a practised swing and a good handicap denote not
only sporting ability but a certain standing, a social cachet.  A game
played  by sophisticated men of leisure, men who have arrived.  A game
about  which  The  Prodigy's  Keith Flint knows practically nothing at
all.   "This,"  he  waves  grandly  in  the  direction  of Melbourne's
Putter's  Crazy  Golf  (Bring  the  whole family for $20!), "is one of
Australia's  most  challenging courses." He swaggers inside and greets
the  attendant  with  the  conspiratorial  wink  of  the  acknowledged
international  celebrity and sportsman.  The man gazes blankly back at
him.   "Don't  you  recognise  me,  then.  " he asks expectantly.  The
attendant  looks  Keith  up  and  down.   He  looks  at  the  burgundy
jumbo-cord  Bermuda  shorts;  the  lime  green  polo shirt; the Adidas
sports  sandals;  the  complex  tattoo  winding up the right calf.  He
looks at the baseball cap, from beneath which two strips of hair - one
yellow,  one  electric orange - protrude at crazy angles.  Nope.  He's
pretty  damned  certain  he's  never seen anything , like this before.
"In  Europe,"  Keith offers, "I'm very, very big in crazy golf.  Very,
very  big."  His  accomplice  -  the  wiry black man in the sarong and
baseball  jacket  -  nods  earnestly.   "The biggest." Standing behind
Tricky,  Billy  Bragg  sniggers  quietly.  In Melbourne, itinerant pop
stars must find amusement where they can.

        IT'S  A  COMMON MISCONCEPTION THAT Australia is a country with
all  the  cultural  depth  Southern  California  would  have if it was
invaded  by cockneys and governed by Michael Portillo and Roy 'Chubby'
Brown.   But  although  there is clearly more to the place than lager,
men  in  shorts and a high incidence of melanoma, it's easy to get the
wrong idea.  It is, for instance, a place with a terrible abbreviation
problem.   Anyone  who's seen Neighbours knows about 'arvo' and 'uni'.
But  you  may  not  be  aware that at Christmas you send cards to your
friends,  family  and  'rellies'.   And  just  take  a look out of the
window:   a  dustcart  trundles  slowly  past,  its  garbage compactor
howling.  And just so you know what it is, it has one word written all
the  way  down  the side in vast blue letters:  GARBO.  And while it's
long  since  become  a  clichÇ  that  American  TV has 62 channels and
nothing  on, Australian TV is worse than that.  Australian TV has five
channels,  and  nothing  on  that  you  haven't  already seen on a wet
Wednesday  night in Swindon.  Saturday night's peak viewing on Channel
2,  for instance, boasts Heartbeat followed by The Bill and Birds Of A
Feather.   Channel  Ten  follows Baywatch with TV Allsorts, a two-hour
sitcom  omnibus including The Good Life, To The Manor Born and Are You
Being  Served?   And  if  you get up on Sunday morning, you might well
catch  Superted, and then the football:  Liverpool v Leeds United.  In
Australia,  the  opposition  Democrats  are  going  into  the  general
election  under  the  official  banner 'Keep The Bastards Honest'.  In
Australia,  the  national drink-driving campaign's slogan is:  'IF YOU
DRINK,  THEN  DRIVE,  YOU'RE  A  BLOODY IDIOT.' Still, The Prodigy are
making  the  best  it.  On a two-week jaunt around the country for the
Big  Day  Out  festival tour and a few club dates, this is their third
visit  to  Australia.   And  they're getting to know their way around.
Down  at  Melbourne's faintly alternative Triple R radio station, Liam
Howlett,  Maxim  Reality  -Keeti to his friends - and Leeroy Thornhill
are  clustered  around  a  table  in  a  backroom  studio  for  a live
interview.  They've already spent an afternoon patiently explaining to
a  local TV crew that they've been working with Cleo Laine and plan to
go  into  studio  with  Mr  Acker  Bilk  and  his Jazzmen as soon as a
mutually  convenient  opportunity arises.  This should be interesting.
"So  we've  lost  the  mad  one,  have  we?"  asks  the fortysomething
disco-vicar  DJ.   "He's  not  off riding his motorbike, is he?" Liam,
Maxim  and  Leeroy  smile  the kind of smiles deployed by men in their
mid-twenties  whose  grandparents  observe that, My, how you've grown.
Keith disappeared hours ago.  Twittering nervously about Essex, raving
and Nitzer Ebb - anything, really, as long as it sounds right - the DJ
puts  a  record on.  "With 'Voodoo People', you're the representatives
of  the  jungle  scene,  aren't  you?"  "No," says Liam.  "That's just
because we filmed the video in the jungle," says Maxim.  Keith chooses
this  moment  to  enter  the studio, shouting at the top of his lungs.
The  DJ  looks  genuinely  perturbed,  but  then settles back into the
interview with gusto.  In fact, he gets quite carried away.  There are
no  rules  for  music  any more," he yelps, "And you guys are breaking
them!" Liam asks him to play Smashing Pumpkins' 'Geek USA'.  "Is there
any  particular  reason  why  you've  chosen  that track?" "It rocks,"
deadpans Liam.  "That's a good enough reason!  Let's rock!"

        SINCE THE RELEASE OF THE GENRE-SMASHING Mercury Prize-winning,
breakbeat punk of 'Music For the Jilted Generation' two years ago, The
Prodigy have become something no one ever expected them to be:  a rock
'n'  roll  band.  While dance outfits like Orbital and Underworld have
succeeded  in  taking  techno  to  the  rock  masses, The Prodigy have
effectively  gone about it more directly, and become a dance band that
makes  rock  music.  They absorb breakbeat techno, hip hop and guitars
in  equal  measure  and  spit  it out in a black wall of noise.  Their
records  are  dominated by machines, but infused with a raw power that
makes  Rage  Against  The Machine look like leading lights of the Easy
Listening  revival.   And  the  things  is,  everybody  thinks they're
fantastic.

   WHO'S THE MOST SUPRISING PERSON YOU'VE heard likes The Prodigy?

        Maxim:   "Bono.   We played at the MTV awards in Berlin and he
and the Edge came into the changing room.  He said he'd been listening
to the album driving around the South of France." Leeroy:  "Just after
the  first  album  came  out  Des O'Connor was on Radio One.  And they
asked  him  what  he  did to psyche himself up before he went onstage.
And  he  said,  Listen to The Prodigy album.  So on our next single we
put,  Respect  to Des O'Connor." Liam:  "My dad.  We've been doing the
band  for  five  years  now, and my dad only saw us for the first time
when we played Ilford Island about five months ago.  You expect him to
say,  Oh,  nice  one son, well done.  But he was like a raver.  He was
going, 'Oh yeah!  The bass!  The energy!"


        IT'S  BEEN  FIVE  YEARS  SINCE LIAM HOWLETT discovered, to his
surprise,  that  he  could  get records into the charts without really
trying.   To  begin  with,  he didn't even like techno.  Coming out of
school  in  1988,  he payed no attention to the burgeoning rave scene,
but  got into hip hop.  Using his musical training (the eight years of
piano lessons his father made him take, until the teacher realised his
musical  memory  was  so  good  he'd  never  be bothered to sight-read
music),  he  started  DJing  and writing the music in a Chelmsford rap
outfit  called  Cut  To  Kill.  But he gradually realised they weren't
going anywhere and ended up spending more time back in his hometown of
Braintree.  He went to the local club, The Barn, where a pre-Shamen Mr
C  was  resident  DJ.   He  got  into  the music, and then he got into
ecstasy.  Within six months, he had bought the rave miracle:  going up
to  the Astoria and warehouse parties in London, going to The Barn and
DJing  at  parties on the beach afterwards.  And he started using what
he'd  earned in hip hop to write music.  Keith Flint was in and out of
jobs  all  the  time, but was a reliable drug-dealer - a man who would
sort  out  everyone  in Braintree with an E and some grass on a Friday
night.   Leeroy Thornhill was a self-employed electrician.  The two of
them  were  well-known on the party scene:  they'd be focal points for
the  night,  their  energy  and enthusiasm so infectious that everyone
would  dance  around  them.   Even if they hadn't had any pills.  When
Keith  asked  Liam for a tape of tunes he'd been playing on the beach,
Howlett  filled  one side with records, the other with stuff he'd been
doing  himself.   Coming  back  from a rave one night, still off their
heads,  Keith and Leeroy put the tape on.  "It was," says Leeroy, "the
bollocks."  They  were so excited by Liam's stuff they started working
out  all  the  moves they'd do between them if they were dancing to it
onstage.  The following week they asked Liam how he'd feel about doing
the music onstage with a couple of dancers.  They had no idea Liam had
already  taken  the  tape  to record companies and the second one he'd
seen  said yes.  It was October 1990.  They hooked up with a reggae MC
-  Maxim  Reality, from Peterborough - for their first gig in London's
glitzy  Dalston.   The punters loved them.  Their first EP, 'What Evil
Lurks' got to number 31 in the dance chart.  It was the first and last
record  Liam  would  make that would fail to go into the Top 20 of the
national  chart.   It  was just too easy.  Other bands they'd seen - N
Joi,  Shades  Of  Rhythm  -  had  costumes, so they got costumes, too.
Everyone  wore  one,  and  they were all identical baggy white affairs
with  green  circles.   "We looked," says Liam, "like The Stylistics."
Liam  could  do  no  wrong.   He  knew the rave scene so well, he knew
exactly  the  kind of record people like him wanted to hear.  When the
infamous  'Charly'  came  out,  the band found themselves at Åber-rave
Perception  in  Cirencester - playing in a tent to 15,000 people, with
15,000  more  trying to get in to see them.  They refused to go on Top
Of  The  Pops,  but  when  'Everybody In The Place' came out, they did
Normski's  completely  sorted  teatime  show Dance Energy.  But by the
beginning  of  1993,  with 'Wind It Up' becoming his fifth consecutive
Top  20 single in 18 months, Liam suddenly caught sight of what he was
doing.  He was making music on autopilot for an audience on drugs.  It
was  rave-by-numbers - change the reggae sample, change the beat, have
another  hit.   Rave  fans  were so nutted most of the time they'd buy
anything  with  The  Prodigy's  name on it.  It was embarrassing.  One
Saturday night in Scotland, playing to another tent filled with 15,000
white-gloved  goons,  Howlett looked out in horror at the gurning mass
of  cheesy  quavers.   Look at these people, he thought.  They're just
total  clowns.   What  are we doing?  We're supposed to be the fucking
clowns...    It   was   time   for  something  else.   Something  more
challenging.  Something with guitars in it.


        WHAT'S THE MOST EXTRAVAGANT THING YOU'VE ever bought?

        Maxim:  "Probably this bracelet.  It's made of silver and cost
about  ú600.  Or this watch:  ú1,500.  A Brietling.  Things I'd always
wanted,  you  know what I mean?  Nothing really over the top.  I'm not
like  Keith  and  Liam.  Buying expensive rollerblades they'll use for
two  days  and  then  be  in  the cupboard by the time they get home."
Leeroy:   "My  bedroom.  I've spent a couple of grand on it.  It's all
airbrushed  comic book art:  Johnny Alpha and Wulf from Strontium Dog,
Judge  Dredd  and  Batman  swinging  in  from the window.  It's all on
cut-out  boards  so  it looks 3-D.  It's the bollocks." Liam:  "When I
was  14,  I  saved  all  my  pocket money, went to Southend and bought
myself a Ninja suit.  With the face mask and the shoes and everything.
And  a wooden sword.  My friend bought one as well, and we went out at
night, stalking around the playing fields, being Ninjas.  Fifty pounds
was  a  lot then - that was half a BMX.  I only wore it twice." Keith:
"My  bike  really,  cos  I've  spent  so much to make it go as fast as
possible.   But  I  don't  want  to  say  my bike, really.  I'm always
talking about it."

        THE  BIG  DAY  OUT  IS,  IN PRINCIPLE A BIT like Lollapalooza.
Both  festivals  take  a  multi-stage line-up from city to city.  Both
festivals  have  Perry  Farrell on the bill.  But there the similarity
ends.   Chiefly because the organisers of The Big Day Out hit upon the
fantastic  idea of using agricultural showgrounds - replete with sheds
and  pens  -  as  festival  sites.   The  result  is  an event with an
unnervingly backwoods flavour, with more of the 'You're not frum round
here,  are  yuh, boy?' ambience of Deliverance than the pastoral idyll
of  Glastonbury.   Tricky can be seen playing at the Nicholas Pavilion
For Jersey Cattle Number Four.  A sign overhead points to a Display Of
Pigeons  And Caged Birds.  It's just around the corner from Incubators
And  More.  But for the most part, it's just a trifle odd.  It is, for
instance,  a festival with a cloakroom.  A huge hoarding near the main
stage  advertises  the  sale of Boltz Earplugs.  'STICK 'EM' advises a
sign  helpfully  'IN  YOUR EARS'.  And then there're the bands.  Aside
from  the  headliners:  Nick Cave, Rage Against The Machine, Porno For
Pyros  and,  obviously, The Prodigy, much of the talent is indigenous:
And  then  there're the bands.  Aside from the headliners:  Nick Cave,
Rage Against The Machine, Porno For Pyros and, obviously, The Prodigy,
much  of the talent is indigenous:  Spiderbait, for instance.  And The
Testeagles;  Kranktus  or  The  Bearded  Clams?   Which  is  it to be?
Especially when they clash with Superjesus.  And - damn - we've missed
Front  End  Loader.   They  were on at 5.30.  But the highlight of the
festival is elsewhere.  Over in a neglected corner of the site, in the
shadow  of  the  do-it-yourself  piercing centre and opposite the beer
shed,  a  hand-painted sign announces The Lilypad Stage.  Flanked by a
giant  inflatable  duck  on one side, and a huge pink rabbit wearing a
waistcoat  on  the  other,  it's clearly signposted as a black hole of
madness  for  the entire continent.  For a start, the stage features a
man  in  a black dress trimmed with pink feathers swinging from a rope
tied  to  the  lighting  gantry  and a cock- tail waiter making banana
daquairis  for the entire audience.  At the back, a fat bearded man in
a  fluo-  rescent  orange  hockey  shirt  is  playing lounge music and
shouting  into  a  microphone.   At  the front, a man in a white suit,
sunglasses  and  white  stetson prowls up and down.  His name is Slick
and  he  has been drinking since ten this morning.  It is now 6pm.  He
talks constantly into his mic.  "If anybody out there," he says, in an
amiable  carnival-barker  drawl, "wants a daquari, just come up here."
This is the most reasonable invitation he will make all night.  As the
lounge  music  plays  on, things go rapidly downhill.  "If anybody out
there  has got the faintest idea what we're doing, please come up here
and  explain  it  to  us." "That's all." "If anybody out there doesn't
like our jokes, they can just...  fuck off." "That's all." "If anybody
out  there thinks we're ripped, they'd be right.  We've smoked so much
gear  we can't stand up." "If anybody out there has been tampered with
by their parents in the last hour or two, just step up here on stage."
"If  any  little  boys  out there would like to be tampered with, then
just  come  up  here."  It  is at this point that Leeroy ambles - very
prominently  -  into  view.   The man in the white suit doesn't miss a
beat.   "If anybody out there dances with The Prodigy and doesn't mind
giving head, there's a man up here who'd really appreciate a blowjob."
Leeroy  is  a  big  fan of the Lilypad stage.  It is, as he says, "the
bollocks".

         DO YOU EVER THINK YOU'RE IN A BAND WITH three Bez's?

        Liam:   "Yeah.   I've thought that up until now.  But this new
album, hopefully, will take it away from that.  But you love Bez, when
you  watch  him  don't you?  Cos you know he's just a complete nutter.
And  he's real, you know?  "People love Keith for being mad.  He's the
celebrity  out of the band, just because of the way he is.  And people
love  Leeroy  for...  whatever he does.  Maxim's a bit more than that.
Maxim,  OK, he dances, but he's had his moment of glory with 'Poison'.
And  they'll both have their moments of glory on the new album, when I
write a few more vocal tracks with them."

              DO YOU HAVE THE EASIEST JOB IN THE WORLD?

        Maxim:   "Sometimes  I  sit down and think about what I do and
think,  Yeah,  it is easy.  But the only reason it's easy is because I
enjoy  it  so  much.  I look forward to every show, I get such a buzz,
and  that's  all  I  strive for, really."Leeroy:  "No, not at all.  It
does get physically tiring, especially when you're touring.  And some-
times  I'd  love to come home and get that feeling that the end of the
week's  over,  like  I used to.  I can't explain how badly it can fuck
you up men- tally, waking up in hotel rooms not knowing where the fuck
you  are."  Later, as everyone clambers into the bus for the Melbourne
show,  Keith  reveals  he  has  lost  his  tour  laminate.   This is a
disaster.   In the otherwise recklessly libertine world of the band on
the  road, it's a cardinal sin, Numerous checks and proofs of identity
will  be  necessary  if  he  is  to  obtain  another  one.  "You're in
trouble,"  nudges  Leeroy.   "They'll  want  a  blood  sample, a urine
sample,  a  stool  sample and a semen sample.  So," he grins, "you can
just  give  them  a  pair of your pants." He pauses for a moment.  "Or
your   handkerchief."  Before  the  gig  starts,  as  Liam  plays  his
apocalyptic  intro  of  stabbed  keyboards  and  doom-cracking bassbin
thuds,  the  other  three  go  into their individual warm-up routines:
Maxim,  the hood of his puffa jacket up, shadowboxes and dances on the
spot;  Keith does some jumping up and down and stretching; Leeroy does
the same, with a bit of his Gerry Anderson-via-Guru Josh callisthenics
thrown  in.   The  set  is  everything  the frenetically keen audience
expects it to be.  Keith goes through his increasingly complex costume
changes, ranging from the white satin skirt and matching jacket to the
tartan  get-up  for his vocal star-turn, the new single 'Firestarter'.
Leeroy dances like a marionette in a washing machine.  Liam leans into
his  equipment  and  rocks  back and forth frantically as if trying to
prevent  it  being  torn  away by a high wind.  And Maxim?  Maxim does
that  things  where  he  strides up and down the crash barrier glaring
into the eyes of individual members of the crowd like he wants to kill
them  with  his  bare hands.  What on earth is going through his mind?
Back  in the dressing room, his personality restored to normal, serene
warrior  calm,  he thinks about it don't know," he says pensively.  "I
just like intimidating people."


   WHAT'S THE SINGLE MOST IRRITATING HABIT anyone else in the band?

        Maxim:   "Keith.   Lateness, pondering around, Oh I'll just do
this, I'll just do that.  It just winds me up.  And it's been going on
for  five  years."  Leeroy:   "Keith.  Without a doubt.  He's loads of
'em.   Never  go  shopping  with  Keith  worse than any bird you could
imagine." Liam:  "Keith.  His arse goes off like an alarm clock at six
o'clock every morning." Keith:  "Erm.  Nothing, really.  No one really
annoys me."

        BRAINTREE  IS  A LONG WAY FROM THE ESSEX myth and stereotype -
the place where every man under the age of 30 has a sheepskin car coat
myth  and  stereotype  - the place where every man under the age of 30
has  a sheepskin car coat and a CV with separate columns for 'Ducking'
'Diving'.  It's a respectable-looking commuter-belt town, with a small
shopping  centre  and twisting little backroads.  Down one of them, on
the   into   the   sticks,   is   Liam   Howlett's   house.    It's  a
respectably-sized  old  coach-house.   Not  enormous, but comfortable.
Outside  the  front  door  is Liam's Ford Escort Cosworth.  Inside the
door,  it's  like  a  particularly  nifty  Doctor  Who set.  The whole
hallway  has been clad in special effects-grade fibreglass so it looks
like  rough-hewn  stone interior of an Aztec temple.  The doors appear
to be made of huge tablets rock.  There's the sculptured face of a sun
god  star  ing  down  from the end of the room.  It's a disappointment
when  the  rest  of  house doesn't match - although, inside the studio
where  Liam  has made all the Prodigy records since 1993's 'One Love',
there  are  two beady-eyed green latex aliens.  His newest acquisition
is a three-foot mutant rat which squats by the TV in the living room -
found  in  a  special effects s in Australia.  His girlfriend hates it
already.   The  studio  is  neat  and tidy - "I've just had a bit of a
Hoover"  -  and  racks of equipment wink in the dim light.  Beside the
stacks  of  dance  CDs - 'Ravemania:  The First Generation', 'Hi Speed
Techno  Groove  Vol 3' and the promising-sounding 'Rotterdam Techno Is
Hard  Hard  Hard!  ' there is much evidence of Liam's Catholic tastes.
Oasis,  Supergrass  and  Skunk Anansie can all be found here - as can,
bewilderingly, Jamiroquai.  Now we're here, what of the new album, due
for  release  in  a matter of weeks?  "Ah," says Liam.  "Today isn't a
good  day to check out the album.  But then it wouldn't be for another
couple  of  months.   I've only done four tracks." It seems the LP may
well  be  a bit late.  Working alone as he does, it takes Liam a month
to  do  two  tracks.  But the four he's done so far are fantastic.  As
well  as  'Firestarter',  there's  'Breathe',  with  Keith and Maxim's
duelling  vocals  and  another hammering work in progress which sounds
like  the  'Great  Lost  James Bond Theme (Breakbeat Remix)'.  Liam is
disarmingly polite and concerned about what you think of his work.  He
cues  up  the  DAT for the Beastie Boys-sampling 'Funky Shit', presses
play  and  then  pauses  it.  "Do you want to hear it?" he asks, as if
he's  keeping  you  from something much more interesting.  But Liam is
terrified  about  maintaining  credibility of The Prodigy.  'Music For
The Jilted Generation' achieved the remarkable credibility backflip of
transforming  The  Prodigy  from  derided  rave  nutters into the band
everyone  wan to see.  But he's terrified he might blow it again.  And
he  doesn't  want  to  disappoint anyone.  When he'd completed 'Jilted
Generation',  he  thought he'd been too selfish, doing exactly what he
wanted  to  do.   "I felt responsible to the people who expected me to
make fast techno records.  I thought nobody would buy it - maybe a few
old  fans."  But  in the end, he adopted a simple mindset:  "I thought
Bollocks."  And  put  it out anyway.  "And I've thought, Bollocks ever
since.   now  I'll  continue to think, Bollocks with 'Firestarter' and
everything  else  I  do."  So  what  does  Liam  want to do next?  The
24-year-old  musical  genius  considers point for a moment.  "The only
ambition I've got now,' he says levelly, "is to learn to play Bullseye
theme on the piano.  Then I could walk into a pub and rattle that off.
That," he adds, "would be the bollocks."

                             Thank You...



re-edited by ctp/mawi^underground
underground production 1997

