
                     A SKY NEWS Prodigy Interview

                 Prodigy interview with the SKY news


        "And  this  is  for  Brit-pop"  Who needs jangly guitairs when
you're  a  "harder-than-Oasis" dance band with a pink-haired mad bloke
for  a  lead  singer ?  The Prodigy certainly don't.  Sylvia Patterson
samples the even-better-than-Glastonbury live experience...

        One word to describe The Prodigy Live Experience ?  Deafening.
Literally.   Several persons aged 12 to 25 are bawling their appraisal
for  the  preceding  90 of beserk "techno rock hiphop beakbeat tension
dance  thrash"  and no one can hear a bloody thing that anyone else is
saying.   It  may  be  winter  outside  -  minus  20  in  bastard-hard
Livingston,  Scotland  - but in our ears it's Niagara Falls, Canada in
spring as a collective bloodstream whooshes in PA-pummlled defeat.  We
have  witnessed,  as  one punter put it, "the kind of thing that makes
you  think  'I'm  getting the fuck out of this shit-hole'" The kind of
thing, then, that changes lives...

        Five  years  ago The Prodigy released the 987 bpm rave classic
Charly, and instantly became the titans of comedy tots' techno.  Today
"rave"  is  a  word  used  only  by TV newsreaders in association with
ecstasy  and dead teenagers and The Prodigy are hailed as The Greatest
Rock'n'Roll  Band  In  The  World.   It  was the live set entitled The
Greatest  Show  On  Earth  that did it and Glastonbury 95 that rumbled
them.   As  the  crowds  staggered away from Oasis' lumbering headline
appearance  they  sought the NME stage alternative :  The Prodigy.  It
was everything Oasis wasn't :  a spectacle.  Keith Flint, scariest man
in  noise dementia since that bloke from Killing Joke used to stand on
his  organ  and  pretent to be the devil, was anointed the irrefutable
King  Of  Rock'n'Roll and the one-time insular festival/dance circuits
were  forced  to  offer  up their favourite sons as All Of The Peoples
Heroes.    Tonight,   on   stage  in  Livingston,  in  the  first  PBP
(post-Brit-pop(tm)), no one is up there playing dated music in a parka
zipped  up  to  the  bristling eyebrows.  Everyone up there is gurning
gleefully  at  the  past  that's become our present, hurtling straight
through  the  nostalgia  barrier and into the future proper.  Already,
The   Prodigy   look  like  the  first  men  of  the  new  millennium.
"Ah-gat-the-poiznnnn, ah-gat-the-remedeeee !!"

        "There's  nothing  pop about The Prodigy whatsoever.  We might
be...   popular...   but  that's  a  total accident - we didn't go out
there looking for it" - mad Keith Livingston is cuffed off its axis to
Poison  as  Liam Howlett, technological tune whizz, guffaws behind his
bank  of  glittering  decks,  rapper  MC  Maxim  stalks off the stage,
neon-blue-and-yellow   Devil's  Cat's  contact  lenses  ablaze,  while
Leeroy,  six  foot  six,  and  Keith  -  adorned in a silver and black
shredded  shirt-and-jacket  number,  twirling  and  leering  like some
speed-fried drag queen straight off the limo from Saturn - both shreik
yelps of "Hey !" "Yaaargh !" and "Oh my Gaaaaad !".  And Keith has his
first  attempt  at lyrical "singing" in the metal-fierce hip-hop pound
of  superb  new  Firestarter.   The huge, transparent atlasphere which
once  hosted  Keith's entrance has, sadly, had it's day, but you don't
need  gimmicks when you've got more lunatic stage-diving tomfoolery on
display  than  the  collective  personnel of Billy Smart's Circus on a
headful of hallucinogenics.

        One  word  to describe the bar staff of the Hilton Hotel bar ?
Nervous.   Very.  Like most visually-terrifying people, of course, The
Prodigy  are  harm-free children you could entrust with new-born pups.
Put your hands in the air (like you just don't care) for...

        Maxim  !  Aka Keeti, rapper, one-time reggae-toaster, believer
in ghosts (who's seen loads to prove it), currently whistling into one
of  those  "novelty"  miked-up  pint  glasses  causing  endless public
feedback rumpus.

        Leeroy!   Tallest man in pop, dancer, electrician, old chum of
Keith's,  currently  going on about how much he hated Christmas:  "You
have to change you life for it, don't you ?  Just for some geezer in a
red  suit.   'I  don't  care  who  you  are  you fat bastard, get your
reindeer off me roof!'"

        Keith !  Dancer, rapper, ex-traveller, parachuting enthusiast,
nose-and-tongue-bolted/purple-and-green-haired icon immortalised on at
least  on fan's back in tattoo form.  He once stage-dived right out of
his  trousers,  boxers  included, and surfed on the heads of the crowd
who tried to "grab his lunch," talks like Jools Holland and looks like
Vyvian  off  The  Young Ones.  Is currently impersonating a Rottweiler
while wresting your repoerter's white fluffy coat to the ground.

        Liam  !  Teenage musical "prodigy" (hence the band's moniker),
player  of  the  piano  since  six  years old, lover of hip-hop at 14,
sports   car   collector  and  currently  the  essence  of  wide-open,
huge-grinned  charm,  he met Keith while DJing at a beach party in the
summer  of  1990.   The  band  all posses a of wide-open, huge-grinned
charm,  in  actual  fact,  and they are all exceptionally good-looking
despite  their  attempts to make you believe otherwise.  And they are,
frankly,  hopeless  at  explaining  their  own staggeringly successful
phenomenon  without  resorting  to  rock'n'roll  cliché-dom.  To wit :
"The  press  just  build  you up to tear you down." "I don't write for
anyone  else  except  myself."  "We'd  love  to  be able to go and see
ourselves." "You'll never ever be able to manufacture what we've got."
"We're  not  into  categorisation,  it's just Prodigy music." In other
words, they are punk rockers.

        So.   The Prodigy.  The Greatest Show On Earth eh ?  "Oh God,"
weeps Liam, genuinely appalled at the accusation, "I wish people would
stop  saying that...  We're not saying that..." he cringes, "ans we've
been doing it for the last five years.  We're just out there to rock a
crowd and that's all we care about.  We're just a hard dance band with
rock  inspiration,  anything  that  has the energy, know what I mean ?
Expectations,  man...   we  don't  want to let anybody down." "What it
is,"  continues  Liam, "is the dance scene always thought 'The Prodigy
are  ours',  and  they  never gave a fuck who else knew about us.  Now
things  are  opening up, and the dance snobbery's going, same with the
festivals  and  their rock snobbery.  They never used to want to dance
acts, now you've got Tricky, loads of 'em.  Even in 1994 we approached
Glastonbury  and  they  said  we wern't big enough, know what I mean ?
Which  made  us  want  to say 'Bollocks to 95' Not that we think we're
big..."

        The  Prodigy  are  incapable  that  they always knew they were
special  ("No  no  no  !   Not even that, not at all, we never thought
about  it,  we  just did it !", though Keith, thankfully has a theory.
"We  started  off  wanting  to play at the clubs we used to go to," he
states,  "but  because  we've  all been in loads of different scenes -
I've  been playing in rock scenes, know what I mean ?  - what was much
better  was playing the places we shouldn't be playing at.  And that's
what  did  it.   We  thought  'fuck  it,' got on the bill with Senser,
Biohazard, Helmet, Suicidal Tendancies, and the Red Hot Chili Peppers.
Barbed  wire round the stage, no glo-sticks, no Vicks, people spitting
everywhere,  brilliant.   We  went there, rocked it and held our heads
up.  There's nothing pop about The Prodigy whatsoever.  We might be...
popular...  but that's a total accident - we didn't go out looking for
it.   OK, you can't avoid success sometimes, unless you...  split up !
But  it's  about  whether  you take the piss or not.  We could've done
tours  with Harvey Goldsmith, and he's involved with Smash Hits awards
so if you do that then you're in Smash Hits."

        They  were  after  you  for  a front cover about a year ago, I
believe.   Keeti :  "Really ?  Not having that, man.  Really ?" Liam :
"Well, you'd get a picture of my nuts on the front cover."

        The  Prodigy  must  prepare to "rock the crowd." In the modest
dressing  room,  littered  with  crisps  and  beer cans, Liam takes an
unfeasible shine to you reporter's taste-free flourescent orange shirt
and  "borrows"  it  for  the show (on is obliged to whip the thing off
behind  a  still-erect  Christmas  tree in exchange for a purple piped
white  T-shirt.   Which  ran  after  one wash.  Cheers).  There are no
buxon  lovelies  here  waiting to snort cocaine off Keeti's remarkable
thighs.   Or  anything  like it (although a superbly "refreshed" woman
such  as  myself).   It's  the start of a year of touring right around
Planet Earth and Keith, for one, cannot wait.

        "It's  ideal  for  me," he chirps, "I love being surrounded by
people."  Keith  Flint,  ages  six-and-a-half,  swigs  some  water and
transforms himself into the Liberace of hard man's dance as Liam turns
the talk to the good folks of pop he actually admires.  Nirvana, Green
Day,  Skunk  Anansie.   Björk,  Oasis,  Phil  Collins.  Phil Collins ?
Hello ?

        "I've  got  a  lof  of  respect for Phil Collins actually," he
guffaws.  "He doesn't give a fuck, does he ?  Heheh.  But Noel's cool.
And  he gave me the respect and came up to us at Earl's Court and said
'I like what you do'."

        At  the  same  time,  Liam  Gallagher said The Prodigy's music
"does  me  head  in  because  it's too hard." "At least he's honest !"
grins  Liam.   Do  you  understand  why  they  allow  themselves to be
popstars  ?   The  Prodigy in unison :  "Money." Really ?  In unison :
"Yeah !" Leeroy :  "Why else would they approve at £12 calendar in Our
Price ?"

        So  there  isn't  a 1996 Prodigy topless calendar extravaganza
wingin it's way into the shops as we speak ?

        Keith:   "Well,  I've  actually done a hose edition where I do
fireman  poses  in  a  very tight leather G-string holding the hose in
various interesting positions..." Leeroy:  "And then there's me in the
lycra  Spiderman's  suit..."  Maxim:   "And the cowboy suit..." Keith:
"With  the  hole in the buttocks..." Liam:  "And the long-jump towards
the camera naked..."

        Somewhere  in Essex an accountant curses their name as several
million  guarenteed  merchandising  nicker  evaporates into the ether.
And the Prodigy laugh their multi-coloured heads off.




re-edited by ctp/mawi^underground
underground production 1997

