                   Prodigy Trainspotter Information

       This article on Prodigy was featured in the Sunday Times
                          3rd November 1996

                     Please don't call us techno

    Rave pioneers the Prodigy are now injecting anarchy into rock,
                          says ANDREW SMITH

        Oasis  may  have  been  the  band of the year, but it would be
folly to try to argue that the record of 1996 belonged to anyone other
than  the  Prodigy.   Firestarter  was  the musical equivalent of ball
lightning.   It  arrived out of nowhere; tense, compressed, chaotic, a
distillation  of  techno  sounds,  hip-hop  rhythms  and  punkish rock
energy,  the  likes  of  which had simply never been heard before.  It
leapt straight to No 1 in the singles chart and stayed there for three
weeks,  despite the group's continued refusal to appear on television.
The  hastily produced video that Top of the Pops showed in their stead
went  on  to  produce  a  record number of complaints.  Allegedly, the
scenes of their &quot;singer&quot;, Keith Flint, shivering and shaking
(some  would  say dancing) frightened small children.  Off-stage Flint
is  anything  but  intimidating  -  The  Face described him as a cross
between  Max  Wall,  Uncle  Fester,  Private  Godfrey from Dad's Army,
Crusty  the Clown and Sid Vicious's hair.  Put him on a stage, though,
and  he  is  electric.  Even before Firestarter, no artists other than
Oasis  and,  perhaps,  Pulp,  were  being  mentioned by their peers as
regularly  in these pages as the Prodigy.  One theatre director called
their  show at Glastonbury last year &quot;the best piece of theatre i
saw  all  year.&quot;  Afterwards,  Pet  Shop Boys' Neil Tennant found
himself  wondering, &quot;I mean, is Firestarter a song?  You couldn't
sit  down  and  play  it  on  the  piano,  but  it's  a bloomin' great
record.&quot;  He  concluded  that  1996 &quot;would be remembered for
Firestarter more than the guitar bands.&quot;

        The  much-pierced quartet's musical leader, Liam howlett, does
consider  his  composition  to be a song.  We know this because he has
privately  asked:  & quot;How d'you follow a song like that?&quot; - a
question  that a second single, Breathe, will finally be attempting to
answer  when  it  is  issued a week tomorrow.  Where did it come from?
Nobody  would  have  predicted  Howlett's current defining role at the
heart  of  pop culture when he and his mates shuffled out of Braintree
in  Essex  five years ago.  Then they were a rave act, specialising in
slight  but  effective club anthems.  Before the end of 1993, they had
scored  six hit singles (including Charly at No 2 and Everybody in the
Place at No 3) and a top 20 album, Experience.  In retrospect, Howlett
performed  his  role  as  the  high priest of good-time nonsense witha
panache that the copyists who followed him never displayed, but at the
time  this  was  less  apparent.   Howlett  was blamed for the rise of
&quot;toytown  techno&quot;  and  in  the last analysis his tunes were
soundtracks  to  a  drug experience.  Howlett began to suspect that he
could  knock these tunes off in his sleep.  He had money and a measure
of  success,  but no respect.  One night at a dance party in Scotland,
he  looked  down  from  the  stage and thought:  &quot;What am I doing
here?&quot; He resolved to change direction.  &quot;I liked the energy
(of  rave),  but not the corniness,&quot; he says.  &quot;In the early
years, I was surprised to at how many times we managed to pull it off.
I decided that the next record was going to be something for me.&quot;
In  1994,  Howlett  introduced  us  to  that  record.  Though still in
instrumental  nature,  Music for the Jilted Generation didn't work the
way  other  dance  albums worked.  Its wild but tightly focused energy
was  more  suggestive of rock than anything you heard in british clubs
at  the  time,  and it became one of the first to be fully embraced by
the  rock  press,  though  Howlett  and  his  band  were  still widely
misunderstood:   when  critics  tried  to paint Jilted Generation as a
protest  statement  against  the  Criminal Justice Act, Howlett poured
scorn  on  the idea.  Asked who he will be voting for in the up-coming
election,  he replies that &quot;the only thing i give a fuck about is
whether  I have to pay more tax or not, so whoever brings the cheapest
tax  rates, I'll be voting for them.&quot; You can take the boy out of
Essex, but you can't take the Essex out of the boy.  Though, actually,
Howlett  still  lives  there.   There  have  been many &quot;new&quot;
rock'n'rolls  dwon the years - among them comedy and cookery - but the
Prodigy's  success  suggests that the true inheritor is techno.  Until
recently,  with  a  relatively few exceptions, 1990s rock bands mostly
wanted  to be thought of as &quot;pop.&quot; Pop is more supportive of
irony.   Even  the name militates against taking itself too seriously:
it's  punchy,  clever and has good dress sense.  It can borrow and mix
ideas  with impurity.  Not like dumb old rock, which has to be pitched
just right in order to avoid reminding everyone of a scene from Spinal
Tap.    You  will  never  hear  Jarvis  Cocker  refer  to  Pulp  as  a
&quot;band.&quot;  They  are  always  a  &quot;group.&quot;  Techno is
different.   To  start with, it is made almost exclusively by boys and
the  more  serious(or, if you like, sad) fans are boys.  Increasingly,
techno  bands  have  drawn  on the chaotic, transporting energy of the
ebst   rock   bands  and,  like  the  Prodigy,  put  on  extravegantly
entertaining  live  shows.   Oasis just stand there, but you cant take
your  eyes  off  the  Prodigy as the frontline trio of Flint, MC Maxim
Reality  and dancer Leeroy Thornhill confront Howlett's strident riffs
and  rhythms.   They  even  have  costume  changes.   So,  when  Flint
approached  Howlett  with  the  idea of doing a vocal track, something
they  had  never  done before, it made sense.  This led to Firestarter
and its invigorating sibling, Breathe.  An album, originally due about
now,  will be released early next year.  The past six months have left
Howlett,  whose hobbies include fast cars and skateboarding, with some
difficult choices to make.  he does not regard the Prodigy as a techno
group.   Howlett  may  have  begun  as  a  purveyor  of  tunes  to the
discerning  raver,  but  he  mistrusts, even despises, club music now.
What  kind  of  act  does  he  want to be?  &quot;We've always said in
interviews  that  we  don't  want  to be a techno band,&quot; he says.
&quot;We  don't  want  to  give  up writing good dance music and start
writing dodgy rock'n'roll music, but that's the energy were interested
in at the moment.  I wanted to make something more anarchic.  You see,
I  didn't  really expect Firestarter to be accepted so well.&quot; The
mistake, according to Howlett, is to see his music as futuristic.  You
can  see  his point.  As on Firestarter, the earth-shaking rush of the
bass   on  Breathe,  the  crunchy  guitars,  otherworldly,  electronic
instrumentation and Flint's demented vocal, combine the ethereal dance
experience  with  the  visceral  thrill of rock - all things that have
been  heard  before,  butnever before in quite this way.  Like all the
best  things in life, the Prodigy defy definition - and, incidentally,
the new video is every bit as scaryas the last.



re-edited by ctp/mawi^underground
underground production 1997


