
                     A westnet Prodigy Interview

               Prodigy, Music for the Jilted Generation
                            by Martin Bate


        The  Prodigy  are  Liam  Howlett  in the same way that NIN are
Trent  Reznor.   Their  debut  album  was  one of the few albums by an
out-and-out  rave  act  that  I could listen to from start to finish -
every track a speed freak thumping pop/dance song with insidious hooks
and bass to move rooms.  "So....To stop my work falling into the wrong
hands,  I've  taken  it back underground." This is The Prodigy getting
serious,  a  reaction  to both their alleged teeny-dance status and to
the British Governments proposed anti-rave laws.  The titles and tunes
allude  to drugs, crime, and speed (of the motorized vehicle variety),
making  a concept album of sorts.  Few of the tracks go along with the
first  album's  blue-print.  There is much more of a variety of styles
and  tempos,  with  some  tracks  even  borrowing perceptibly from the
industrial,  rap, funk and even soundtrack (imagine John Williams with
break-beats)  genres.   Most of this works, although parts don't.  For
instance,  "Voodoo  People" mixes up a Nirvana-riff ("Very Ape"), with
70's "Shaft"-style flute, and hardcore techno and comes out as a great
bit  of  dance  with  a  twist.   In  contrast the Pop Will Eat Itself
collaboration  "Their  Law"  trudges along on the back of a lackluster
live  guitar  riff,  going  nowhere,  and  doing  little to improve my
opinion  of PWEI.  Things finish off on a high note (in more ways than
one)  with  "The  Narcotic  Suite", a collection of three drug related
moods.   Thus  we have "3 Kilos" with its dreamy keyboards topped with
super-fly  flute  and piano; "Skylined" with its alternating wide open
expanses  and  hard  dance;  and "Claustrophobic Sting" with its dense
roller-coaster  beats  cut  with  screams, scary laughter, and a voice
repeating "My mind is glowing!" like a mantra.  This *is* definitely a
more  mature  album, sacrificing the debut's vicarious pop thrills for
more of an exploration of the dance genre, with varying results.  Some
songs  are  stretched out a little too long and there is a comparative
lack  of  hooks (especially vocal) for the listener's ears and body to
latch  onto on initial listens, but really I'm nit-picking.  There are
few  dance  acts  who  could  produce an *album* as good as this.  The
Prodigy  will  be embarking on a full U.S.  tour in April.  Tour dates
will be announced at a later date.


re-edited by ctp/mawi^underground
underground production 1997

