B) Available Developper Software
================================

Note: The views in develop.txt are not the views of Haage&Partner (who are more...
diplomatic... like me), they are my own views. H&P has a more - gentle way to
indicate it, but if you are reading between the lines, they probably mean the same.

There are multiple Developper Packages available, but not all are useful at all for us.
In this chapter you have to learn of what is commonly known as the "PPC Kernel War",
before i show you the available software.

As Phase 5 put out PowerUP, they included a software that was - bluntly spoken - BAD.
The thing was instable running (crashing) and very inefficient. Also, they let go a lot
of traditional Amiga Features. Their Software did not even know PPC Shared Libraries.
Asked about this they said "a future Amiga PPC OS won't include Shared Libraries
anyways". Their idea at that time was to present the Amiga-Community finally the
Unix System "A\BOX" as the "successor of the Amiga", and they wanted to move the
OS-Software to this direction. It has to be said, that Unix is usable a VERY stable
and efficient operating system, much opposed to phase 5s Amiga-Unix-Mix. AFAIK P5
dropped the "goal Unix" now, but that does not make their approach more sensible...
Phase 5s software has nearly nothing anymore to do with the Amiga as we know it.

At this point Haage&Partner put out the WarpOS Kernel from Sam Jordan, which is a
replacement for Phase 5s PPC Kernel ppc.library. The problem is, ppc.library programs
do not run on WarpOS (and WarpOS application not on ppc.library). If you want to
"exchange Kernels", you have to reboot (At least, if you want to run a ppc.library
program after a WarpOS Program, the other way round works, though).

So you should choose your developper Software careful, so that you choose one that
is compatible with your favourite PPC Kernel. I don't try to hide, that i clearly
favorize WarpOS. WarpOS is just the much more Amiga-oriented solution, and also
the more stable and more efficient one. And i am an Amiga-Fan at first rate, before
favorizing specific firms. Some people claim, i would favorize Haage&Partner, but
this is not the real truth. I used to favorize Phase 5 at the time PowerUP was
released. Just the facts led me to exchanging sides...

WarpOS is available at ftp://ftp.haage-partner.com/WarpUP for download.

Some arguments pro-WarpOS (none of this is possible on ppc.library):

- Dynamic Scheduling
- PPC Shared Libraries
- Mixed Binaries (with Global Variable Sharing)
- Memory Protection (yes, finally on Amiga !!!)
- Fat Binaries
- very fast 68k/PPC Switching (much faster than on Phase 5s software)
- runs 100% stable, no crashes
- Two versions, one of them runs parallel to Phase 5s software (but is much
  slower, as it uses Phase 5s software internally) and one "true WarpOS"
- Control of BAT registers of the PPC and other lowlevel stuff
- Uses Amiga Executables, not Unix Executables, like Phase 5s software does
- PPC Executables can be directly started, without external loader
- Kernel runs completely independent to Exec (this will be interesting,
  as soon as someone creates a 68k Emulation, then Amigas without 68k
  would be possible)
- PPC Native Port of OpenGL is available (100% complete port, not a half-complete
  port, like CyberGL) on H&Ps ftp-Site
- With the latest version (V14) WarpOS-applications can even be started without
  reset, if a program using Phase 5s software was started before
- Quake (well, isn't that a nice Kernel Feature? Well, H&P showed off a WarpOS
  port of Quake at some computer shows... they can't sell it, out of obvious
  reasons, they only used it to show-off their Kernel and C Compiler... but
  it ran really nice... i really hope Clickboom will publish this version...)

Well, so we need Developper-Tools for WarpOS. The only ones that meet this condition are:

- StormC PPC (Commercial C Compiler from Haage&Partner)
- (The soon to be released Freeware C Compiler from Frank Wille)
- StormPowerASM (Very good commercial Assembler by Sam Jordan, WarpOS was written with it)
- pASM (Freeware PPC Assembler from Frank Wille)

SAS/C PPC and GnuC PPC do not help, they are only for Phase 5s software...

It also has to be mentioned, that StormC PPC is the only available PPC C Compiler that
has "automatic Contextswitches" a thing absolutely required to do easy 68k/PPC parallel
developpement.

Well, one of the "Pro's" of StormC is, that you - as these docs will show you - don't
need to know THAT much about the PPC when starting to code for it. Actually the code
is VERY portable. Your code can even compile parallel on 68k and PPC, a thing that never
will be true for ppc.library...

It has to be once more clarified: Even if the situation ("Kernel War") is *bad*, WarpOS
is the Amiga-like way of handling the PPC... and also the more efficient and stable
way of handling things... it is the hope, though, that Amiga International will finish
this "Kernel War" in the future.

This documentation pack is only of any use for you, if you - like me - chose the WarpOS
route. Things are handled COMPLETELY DIFFERENT for the other PPC Software, so if you
want to do software for ppc.library, you can just delete ppcpack.lha, it will be of
no use for you, then...

It has also be noted, that the PPC ASM Part in these docs is specifically for the
StormPowerASM. I don't know the GNU Syntax that pASM uses, but if anyone does a
"pASM Version" of ppctut.guide, please contact me. Also note that ppctut.guide does
not yet explain how to use "indirect data".

