

                                  New Album
                                  ---------
Release Date: was 16 September 1996, now looks like some time after New Year.
Possible Name: Blow Your Mind / Mind Blower / Year 2000
Will be released by: XL Recordings / Begger's Banquet


                             Possible Track List
                             -------------------
                        Blow Your Mind (Original Mix)
                           Breathe (Original Mix)
                          Diesel [AKA Diesel Power]
                         Firestarter (Original Mix)
                          Funky Shit (Original Mix)
                                    Gabba
                                 Kick It In
                         Minefields (Headrock Beats)
                          Minefields (Original Mix)
               Rock 'n' Roll (Original Mix) [AKA Brainstormer]
        Smack My Bitch Up (Original Mix) [AKA Smash My Picture Down,
                                  The Trick
                                  Year 2000
     Untitled song featuring vocals from Skunk Anansie band member Skin.
   Untitled song written in conjunction with Kula`s song writer, Crispian.


                                   Others
                                   ------

Prodigy's  next  release  is  to  be a cover of an L7 track entitled "Fuel My
Fire".   The  track  should be released prior to, or around the same time, as
the  new album.  This track has featured heavily on the Prodigy's recent tour
and once again features Keith on vocals.

Prodigy is also writing a new song with kula shaker.  This song will be on
the new album.

The Prodigy won best dance act at the European Music awards. More
details at ftp://194.80.44.245/latest.html

Also,  some  french  blokes  have  made  a  monument  to firestarter in their
exhibition  and  claim  Keith is a poet and spokesman of today.  A rep of the
prodigy reckoned keith would be into it...

Sunday 17th November, Breathe enters the UK chart at the Number 1 position.


                             New Book coming up
                             ------------------

        Exit  The  Underground  The new book on The Prodigy, reviewed here by
Christian Oliff.  "The Prodigy.  From rave heroes to chart superstardom, here
is  the  full story of Britain's top dance band.  From Charly to Firestarter,
from  PAs  in  fields to topping the bill at Europe's biggest festival, "Exit
The Underground" charts the unstoppable rise of The Prodigy."

        Exit  The  Underground  is  a  great  book  for  all Prodigy fans and
features  loads  of  new photographs of the band.  The book covers the entire
story  of  The  Prodigy  from  the very beginning to bang up to date and even
includes  information  about  tracks  on  their  soon  to  be released album.
Although  not  going  into  such  great detail as Martin Roach's Prodigy book
"Electronic  Punks",  this  book does win hands down in the looks department.
It  is literally packed with colour photographs and is very well designed and
a  joy  to  read.   It also features lots of quotes from The Prodigy and many
snippets  from  the  music  press  including  the likes of N.M.E., Select and
Kerrang!   It's very well written and even after you've read it from cover to
cover,  you'll  come  back  to it and just read snippets and look at the many
great photographs.

        This  book  is well worth getting if you're a fan of The Prodigy (and
if you're reading this - you obviously are), so pop down to your nearest good
book store and get yourself a copy.

                                  Pages: 96
                            Author : Lisa Verrico
                             Publisher : Virgin
                            ISBN : 0-7535-0063-9
                       Price : 19.99 (Pounds Sterling)
                           Released : October 1996


                                 Last Single
                                 -----------

                                Name: Breathe
                       Release Date: 11 November 1996
                          Release on XL-Recordings
            A hip-hop style track with vocals by Maxim and Keith.
               Sword sounds from 36 Chambers by Wu-Tang Clan.
              Guitar sample from John Barry's James Bond score.

                                 Breathe CD:
                                   Breathe
              Their Law (Featuring Pop Will Eat Itself) [Live]
                                Poison [Live]
                                  The Trick

                                Breathe 12":
                               Breathe (Edit)
                           Breathe (Instrumental)
              Their Law (Featuring Pop Will Eat Itself) [Live]
                                  The Trick



 FOR MORE NEWS CONTACT CTP/MAWI. THANKS TO ANDREAS NYLLIN FOR HIS HELP WITH
    COLLECTING THESE NEWS. I HOPE YOU ENJOY OUR WORK AND VOTE FOR SDV ;)


                     underground production 1997
