
                     Interview with Lazur/Scoopex%Pulse
                                by 3D Addict
                                (October'98)


3D  Addict  -  Please tell me a little bit about yourself.  (How old you are,
where you live , your real name, your job/school, etc...

Lazur  -  Hi to all, my name is Tomasz Pietek and I live in Swiebodzice which
is  a  small  industrial  town  in  the south western part of Poland.  I also
attend  a  school  in Walbrzych and of course make graphics for the scene and
various  games.   I  also  like  to bike a lot in the nearby mountines called
Sudety.   I  was  born  on  the  5'th  of September 1977, which by the way is
related with my new slideshow 5977.


3D Addict - Let's start from the beginning.  What was your first computer and
do you miss the days od A500?

Lazur  - My first computer was Atari 800XL bought for the hard gathered money
of  my  parents.   The  year was1990.  There was just enough money to buy the
computer  and a...  joystick :).  The tapedrive and a monitor was something I
could  only  dream  about, so I used my old stereo as the tapedrive and black
and white TV as a monitor (Russian technology).  Because the stereo could not
save  any  data  to  a  tape,  the  only  thing I could do was to play games,
furthermore  the picture of the TV set was very unclear, just like the future
of  the  ZSRR  back then :) In 1992 I become a happy owner of Amiga 500, this
time  with a monitor.  After 2 months with the Amiga I started making some of
my first graphics.  I still got some of them to this day.


3D Addict - How and when did you become interested in the demoscene?

Lazur  -  Actually, before I bought my first Amiga, I started buying games!!!
and  programs  for  the  Amiga.   Because  back  then  there  was no software
copyright laws in Poland I could by every pirated game and program completely
legal in every computer store.  When I bought the Amiga I had about 100 disks
with  all  kind of programs.  Among these programs there were some scene disk
mags.   In  1993  I  found  some  articles  in  a  Polish  computer  magazine
(commodore&amiga)  about  the  scene.   Some  of  the articles featured scene
charts,  from  both  the  Polish  scene and from Eurocharts.  I memorised all
these  charts,  no kidding.  There were also some drawings done by Peachy and
Facet.   These people become my real idols.  Ever since that time, my biggest
dream was to become almost as good as they were.  During the next years I was
consequently getting closer to my dream.


3D  Addict  -  Your  dream  did become true :) What kind of equipment are you
using these days and what kind of software?

Lazur  - I use a PC computer running Photoshop and DeluxePaint.  Perhaps some
people  may  find  it  odd  that  I  use so few programs.  In the past I used
programs   like  Painter,  however  all  these  programs  have  very  similar
possibilities,  one  could  almost  say  that they are equal.  Furthermore, I
belive that a good graphician only needs the most basic tools to draw.


3D  Addict - I agree.  Tell me, how many hours a day do you spend in front of
your computer, and how many of those hours are used on making gfx?

Lazur - It depends.  In the 1994-95, during the summer vacation I was sitting
about  12  hrs  a day in front of a computer.  During the school time I would
spend about 8 hours a day.  I was hungry and sleepy, as all my spare time was
used  on  drawing.   The  external  world  was none existent to me.  All that
counted was the thought of drawing.  In a sense I was addicted.  Currently, I
use about 2 hours a day on drawing.  Both now and then, 99% of the time spent
in  front  of  the  computer is/was spent on drawing.  For me the computer is
simply  a  tool, which enables me to create.  Just like a painter uses canvas
and painting, I use a computer and garphic software.


3D  Addict - Yes, I guess this goes for all of us.  When drawing, do you have
a  perfect  vision  in  your mind or do you draw more freely, by letting your
image evolve in whatever direction you may feel like it.

Lazur  -  The  work always starts from an idea.  Sometimes I only have a very
general  vision  and  sometimes I see the entire image in my imagination with
all colors and details.  However, while drawing on an image my vision usually
changes  so the original idea faints away.  While working on a given image it
often  occurs  that  I'm  unable to realise a certain idea and have to either
drop  a certain fragment of it or simply replace it with something else.  All
this affects the original idea.


3D  Addict  -  Please  describe  in steps how do you create an image.  Do you
start by making an sketch on paper, or is everything done on the computer.

Lazur  -  The  creation of a new image starts by a sketch in DeluxePaint.  In
the  beginning  the  sketch  shows  only  the  basic shapes, later I add more
details  and  at  the end I improve the whole sketch.  This 2 color sketch is
getting  colored  in  Photoshop.  I put a certain color to all big areas of a
given  shape.   For  example:   the hair would be brown, face will be red and
background  blue.   Later  I will assign a mask to each shape.  For example a
hair mask, a face mask and a background mask.  When this is done I will start
do  draw  each  mask starting with large brushes and ending with the smallest
ones.   All  this reminds of spray-painting on a wall, at the same time being
transparent  and giving the possibility to predict how the final version will
look like.


3D Addict - I see.  How long does it take you to draw an image like "Unreal -
the pocket monster"?

Lazur  -  Although,  this  is  probably  the question I get asked mostly, I'm
unable to answer it unequivocally.  An image drawn in 800x600 takes about 1-2
weeks.  Also drawing in 8 bit takes a lot more time then in 24 bit.


3D  Addict - 1-2 weeks, using 2 hours a day?  That`s FAST :) What is the most
difficult for you to draw and what do you like to draw most and why?

Lazur  -  I  don't  know.  I think that the most difficult to draw for me are
things which I have never drawn before or things that are complex and full of
details.  Also drawing human figures in action or in some strange perspective
was  always difficult for me.  Another problem which I always encountered are
the  hands,  which  I always spend a fair amount of time on when drawing.  My
problem  is  the  sketch  itself  of human figures or hands and not the later
drawing.


3D  Addict  -  What  do you think is the most important when drawing an image
(Colors, composition, atmosphere, other aspects)?

Lazur  -  Everything  is  important,  colors, composition, the atmosphere and
other  things.   The  question is how to combine all this.  From one point of
view,  everybody  likes  when  an  image  is  full  of details, however it is
important  to  remember that too many details will destroy the composition as
the  image  won't  have  a "catch" which is the main object which should draw
viewers  attention.   This  matter is very similar with the colors.  Too many
bright  colors can attract the eye, yet it can completely destroy the climate
of  an  image.  The same goes for contrast and carefully worked out drawing..
Therefore it is important to think through what the image will consist of and
what  the  purpose  of the image will be, before starting drawing.  A drawing
for  compo  at  party  will  be  completely different from a personal drawing
reflecting  ones  emotions.  An image for a compo doesn't have to be detailed
and  don't  have  to  be original, simply because most voters are newbies and
only  they  are  not  too  lazy  to  vote.   An  image for a gfx-compo should
preferably  be  a  nude  women,  a  monster,  a  dragon  or  simply  a  face.
Additionally  the  image  should  be  full  of  contrasts, have air or linear
perspective and be in colors.


3D  Addict  -  Yes,  compo  pics should be "cheap" in a way to gather as many
votes  as  possible.   Do  you use any special techniques when drawing?Please
describe which tools do you use mostly?

Lazur - I use the standard tools and the masks in Photoshop.  The tools which
I  use  mostly  are:  air brush for painting large areas and general shading,
the  pencil  is  used  when  drawing details, smudge for making clear crystal
teeth,  blur for blurring :0) and dodge/highlights, which is my favourite, is
used for various kinds of highlights.


3D Addict - Which of your own images do you consider the best one and why?

Lazur  -  Usually, I believe that my latest image is the best one, because my
previous  images  are getting boring for me, furthermore I see more errors in
them.   However, if I should choose few of my best images at this moment I'll
have to split them into two categories:  the best "copy/redraws" and the best
"no  copy".   In my opinion my redraws/copies are a lot better compared to my
"no  copy"  images,  thanks to their original authors.  My "no copies" are of
lesser  quality, especially in terms of proportion and composition.  In spite
of  all  this, my satisfaction is much greater from these images.  By getting
back  to  your  question,  I  think, that my best redraw is "Gimenez" as this
image  has  a  fabulous climate of expression and generally makes a very good
impression.   I  also  really  like  "Alione"  which  has fine colors (in the
original drawing) and fine adjusted color pallette.  Whereas in the "no copy"
category  my  favourite is the "Forest", which has a funny bird and something
around  it.  Actually, i don't even know what this something is, but it looks
very fine.


3D  Addict  -  I  like  "Forest"  a lot, however may favourite is "Unreal the
pocket  monster"  and "Smok" - excellent creature design and tones of colors.
Which also leads me to the next question:  did you quit drawing in 8 bit, and
if yes, why?

Lazur - I stopped drawing in 256 colors in the 1997, because drawing in 8 bit
become  a  history,  just like the 4channel moduls for the Amiga :).  Further
more,  dithering  and  pallette  adjusting  is a pointless and time consuming
process.   256  colors  is  quite limited when when manipulating with colors.
Drawing  in  8bit reminds more about choosing the right cubes and moving them
around,  then  real  drawing.  Whereas ever since I started drawing in 24bit,
drawing  reminds  of  airbrush painting and you don't have to worry about not
having  enough  colors  and trying to spare a bit of space on the palette for
"just in case".  However, In spite of all this, drawing in 256 colors had its
beauty.   It  was  like  a  certain  kind  of  a  game, where tactics and the
possibility od inventing different kinds of tricks for beating the low amount
of  colors,  made  graphicians  like Facet and Cougar simply the best in this
field.


3D  Addict  -  What  do  you  think  about  3d (raytracing).  Do you raytrace
yourself?

Lazur   -   One   thing  is  certain,  3d  (raytracing)  gives  you  enormous
possibilities  for  creating fantastic visions and animations.  I don't like,
however,  that  these  great  possibilities  are  not given to those who have
talent  and willingness, but usually to them who have a lot of money.  I have
to admit that I have been playing with MAX and TrueSpace, but when everything
on my monitor started to crawl as a turtle I went back to 2d.


3D  Addict - I can assure you that a fast computer is only half the solution,
the  other half is patience:) What do you think about redrawing other artists
works?

Lazur - I don't see anything bad in doing redraws from other artists work, as
by doing that you learn a lot.  Despite, I think that by signing your name on
such  redraw  and  later presenting as your own work is a real disgrace.  You
are  probably  very  surprised when I, who have been redrawing my whole life,
write  such  things.   However,  first of all, I don't do redraws anymore and
heaven't  done  a  single redraw for almost a year, secondly my redrawing had
only  a  commercial  character,  which  means  that redrawing was always very
boring  for  me,  but I wanted to get as popular as possible, so I did it all
the  time  (addiction?).   I  would  like  to  stress out that I never used a
scanner,  and  my redrawing was based on simply looking at a picture and then
drawing  and  coloring  on  the monitor.  Many other graphicians use other, I
think  quite  controversial  redrawing  techniques.   For  example,  by first
splitting the image in rectangles and then drawing rectangle after rectangle.
Others  do redraws by first putting a very thin and half transparent piece of
paper  (carbon  paper)  on  the  image  itself, then redraw the image using a
pencil by looking through the paper and drawing over the image.  When this is
done  they  will put the carbon paper on the monitor and redraw the image (as
you  can  see the monitor through the carbon paper).  By doing all this, they
make  minimal  improvements  and  usually  keep on redrawing until the end of
their  scene-careers.   There  are  some  graphicians  who  never do redraws,
unfortunately  most  of  their works represent very low quality which dosen't
affect  their  own high self esteem.  There was a group in Poland once, which
consisted  of  few  graphicians  who regularly fought a war with me :).  they
didn't  like the fact that I did redraws (most probably it was about the fact
that  I  was  more popular then they).  They wrote for example that my images
contain  too  many details and are too precise and realistic.  I really don't
see anything wrong with that.


3D  Addict - I'm glad that you made the right decision not to redraw anymore.
Obviously  you are capable of producing stunning work based on your own ideas
(Unreal  the  pocket  monster,  Forest, Smok, to name a few).  Lets hope that
more  graphicians  will  follow your example.  You have been on the scene for
quite some time.  Who are your favourite graphicians and why?

Lazur  -  In  the  beginning  my  favourite  scene graphicians were Facet and
Peachy.   Why?Simply  because their graphics were absolutely amazing.  When I
saw  in  the  Interferance  demo  Cougars  drawing, I stated that this guy is
unbelievable  and  decided,  by  any  means, to rip his image from this demo.
When I have accomplished that, I would stare and analyse every single detail.
The  same  went  for Facet's graphics.  Currently, as with my own drawings, I
split  graphicians  in  those  who do redraws and the once who don't or do it
very  rarely.  As one may come to think of it , there are a lot more of those
who  do  redraws  and  therefore  they  represent  better  quality.   The top
redrawing  graphicians  are Made and Danny, who both are skilled technically.
It  is  a pity though, that they both waste their technical skills on drawing
the  same  and  same  things  time  and  time over again.  Made is constantly
drawing  woman  faces  and Danny will probably keep on drawing nude girls for
the rest of his life.  I would even risk and state that , thematically, their
drawings  represent the level of some shitty magazines as "Pani Domu", "Tina"
or  "Bravo".   Those  who  are left, do not redraw (or do it rarely) and they
don't  represent  such  level  as  Made  or  Danny does.  Those who are worth
mentioning  are,  Animal,  Antony and Deckard.  Animal is a Polish graphician
who  has  a  very  interesting technique.  On the negative side, he is little
productive  and  lacks  good  ideas.  Antony represent excellent ideas with a
variety  of techniques, in other words he experiments.  You can't predict his
movements.


3D Addict - I agree with you regarding Dannys and Mades pics.  Just to notify
you,  Danny  stopped making redraws and also quit the scene.  Do you have any
favourite real artists and why?

Lazur  -  Before  I bought the computer I was, among other things, collecting
comic  books.  I even tried to draw my own comic books.  In Poland during the
80's  it  was really difficult to get hold of a comic books.  Whenever, I got
the  following  issue  of  Thorgal or Kajko i Kokosz (a comic book similar to
Asterix&Obelix,  though  the  main characters live in the land of Slowian and
talk  about  Mirmilowo[I  have  no idea how these things are in English - can
anybody help?]) I always read it a couple of times and admired every drawing.
Therefore  I still like a lot works of such artists as, Rosinski, Wroblewski,
Polch,  Christa,  Baranowski and Papcio Chmiel.  However, it was Thorgal that
had  the  biggest  influence  on  me,  which is also seen by my drawings, for
example.   Alione.   Of  course  I like works of other artists who doesn't do
comics, artists like Dali or Yokohama.


3D  Addict - Ah, I remember Kajko i Kokosz myself, very funny comics.  I also
really  liked  the Tytus Tomek i Atomek and Kleks :)I should get hold of some
of these comics.  So fun to read.  Anyway, what does the scene mean to you?

Lazur  -  Until  recently the scene was, if you can say that, a place where I
could  get  tested  and first become the best Polish graphician and later the
best in the world.  However currently the scene is getting...  boring for me.
The  scene  is  a  phenomena  without  the  end  or  beginning.  The scene is
constantly changing, and still represents the same..  low level.  All this is
because of the constant flow of new people in the age of 14-15 years who also
leave the scene in the age of 19-20 as they begin to represent something.


3D Addict - Besides making graphics what are your main interests and hobbies?

Lazur - Graphics of course interest me and besides that I spent a lot my time
on  my mountain bike, which will probably soon fall apart, if I will continue
on  biking  the way I do.  One week ago, I had an accident on my bike.  While
biking  in the woods on a path with the speed of 48km/h (at least that's what
the speed-counter was showing) I hooked with the steer of my bike a bypassing
girl, who jumped when she saw me, unfortunately in the wrong direction :).  I
lost  my  vision  for  over an hour, not to mention the fact that I forgot my
name  and  where I live.  My vision is ok now :), but I guess it's about time
to  get  myself  a  helmet :) Besides that, I would like to do a lot of other
things, but don't have the time for it.


3D  Addict  -  So  your  vision is ok, but do you remember where you live ;)I
guess  a  helmet would be a good idea for everybody who bikes a lot.  Ok, one
of the last questions, how did you come up with your handle?

Lazur  -  When I was getting into the scene and started to understand that if
you  want  to  be as good as Facet or Cougar, you must have a cool handle, as
they  had:).   I  started  by  looking  through  the  dictionary,  first  the
Polish-English and later foreign dictionary, in which I found the word Lazur.
Lazur  means  color,  lazurowy  - coloured.  This word is originally from the
arabic language and in the Polish language it become archaism.  I have chosen
this  word  because  it  is  related  with  color  tones and beautiful bluish
seashore.


3D  Addict  - Ok, so now we know the secret :) Would you like to say hello to
anyone?

Lazur  -  Yes,  I  would  like to say hello to Bruce Willis, as he was in the
cosmos and I haven't.


3D  Addict  -  He  might  be  reading this, who knows :) Thanks a lot for the
interview.

Lazur - The pleasure was all mine.

-------------------------
re-edited by Azzaro.Mawi
