disc2.font,12
«»«ac»
«c1»INITIATIVE«»      
«»«ac»
«c3»BY COACH/TWILIGHT EDITORS TEAM«»
«»«as»
«c5»Yes,  I'm  from «c2»Poland «c5»:) and You probably don't know my handle but this
is  not  a  good reason to stop reading now.  Lately there were a lot of
noise  caused  "Poland  contra  West"  case.   I  care deeply about good
opinion  of  both,  so I decided to bring some idea into effect.  People
from  West  are  amazed that polish «c2»disk magazines «c5»are so high in charts
and  a  lot  of  poles  are  thinking on what about are articles in "not
polish"  zines...   We need something that reconcile East and West and
think that this could be a disk magazine.  Not an ordinary disk magazine
but...   At  the moment this is only a project, but if only someone from
You  Western  people  will  help me then who knows?  If You want to know
more about this unusual project then please continue in reading.«»
«»
«c2»Polish magazines «c5»are really good but almost all of You dear readers don't
understand my native language and can't judge if it's true.  I know that
there  is  a  lot  of good «c2»western magazines, «c5»but I have some friends in
Poland  that  understand  only  few words like:  "f..k" or "beer" On the
other  side  In Poland we say that in western countries people know only
two  polish words:  "kurwa" and "wodka" :) This is not a good situation.
And  this is the main reason for which I decided to make a new magazine.
It  will  be filled with the best articles taken from all polish zines -
of  course  all  articles  will  be translated into english.  But if You
think that it's the end of this story then You're wrong.«»
«»
If  You  want  to  help  in  better understanding articles from "english
language magazines" in Poland then please contact me.  Write me what You
think  about  it and of course send me some articles.  I will do my best
to  translate  them.   At  this  moment  I'm  the owner of the code from
«c2»"Strefa Mroku" «c5»- magazine about SF, RPG, UFO...  - which is written in C
and  take  full advantage of graphics & music cards (AHI).  With graphic
nad some nice modules there shouldn't be a problems and the only thing I
need is a lot of «c2»GOOD «c5»articles from west.  If You have written something
interesting for «c2»"english language magazines" «c5»last year or simply want to
publish  something  new,  then use "Yam" or other mail program send Your
article  and  let me to translate it to show your point of view on scene
for  polish readers.  If You're Editor-in-chief of a scene disk magazine
then contact me in order to cooperate.«»
«»
I  think  that this project is worth of doing, so don't even try to say:
"I  don't  know where is Poland...  I don't know who are You...  I can't
help..."  Now  in  the  "age  of  internet" it's so easy to contact with
everyone  and  send  articles,  music,  cliparts, and whatever You want.
Don't  waste the time and give me the sign of life.  I believe this will
take a good turn.«»
«»
«ac»«»
«c4»Coach/Twilight Editors Team«»
e-mail: coach@rac.pl«»
coach@dns.rebel.com.pl«»
«»
«c6»Krzysztof Twardy«»
ul. Zorska 59/4«»
47-400 Raciborz«»
Poland«»
«»
«»
«e»

