disc2.font,12
«»«ac»
«c1»   THE OLD DIEHARDS«»
«»«ac»
«c3»BY PUNISHER/DARKAGE^NAH-KOLOR«»
«»«as»
«c5»I really miss those days when I could buy decent papermagazines focusing
on the computer we all love. Now that «c2»CU-Amiga «c5»and all the others have
been removed from the market, I feel that something is missing in my life.
Something that gave me a feeling of happiness and content. I'm sure that
at least some of you that are reading this text feels the same. However,
what I want to write about is what I've been doing the last days. Namely
reading through my old «c2»Amiga magazines.«»
«»
«c5»It was an amazing experience to once again read old diehards like «c2»'Amiga
Forum', 'CU-Amiga' and 'Databladet'. «c5»I had almost forgotten how fun it
was! I did also become pretty amazed by the huge quantity of reviews the
magazines had back then. Roughly about twenty good game reviews, a couple
of programming courses, opinions about the latest demos, utility sections
and so on. Not to mention the hardware front, which were absolutely
swarming with accelerators, video-cards, graphic-cards, sound-cards,
samplers etc. I did also began laughing when checking through a number of
CU-Amiga from 1993 where they were a bit pessimistic due to the low number
of new games being released. Is ten games per month not enough? Today
it would have been a sensation if that amount had been released.«»
«»
Reading articles about what people thought would happen to the Amiga in
the «c2»future «c5»was also interesting. Many people dreamt about PowerPC based
systems, and this became true. Others had more wild ideas, but I won't go
into detail here. Also during the period when Commodore had gone bankrupt,
people were still hoping for new machines. Now we have been waiting since
1993-1994, but nothing has happened. I wonder if the same people back then
are still waiting? I guess I'm one of them, because I'm really looking
forward to see our beloving machine back on track again. Who wouldn't
though? Anyway, it's funny to read and really see for yourself who was
right and who was wrong, which ideas became reality and which did not. I
will for sure preserve my old collection of magazines for the rest of my
life. They still give me something to enjoy. So my advice to you is that
if no one bothers to produce new mags, then simply read the old ones and
dream away! The «c2»Amiga «c5»is a very important part of our modern computer
history, and we should not forget about our past! Even if the news aren't
worth reading anymore (in some cases they can be quite similar to the ones
arriving now though..) or that old game reviews are outdated, give it try!
I'm sure you will think it's «c2»fun!«»
«»
«c5»I don't know why I wrote this crap, but I just wanted to share a little
bit of my joy with you. Thanks for reading!«»
«»
«»
«e»

