»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------
            »CL8:Interview with
            »BIG:Dr.Awesome
»CL9:»SML:--------------------------------------

     »CL4:Interviewed by Cytron/Depth.

»CL1:EC:»CL0: Who are you, and what do you have
 to do with the Official Eurochart
 (just to make things straight :-)

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: I'm the guy who started the
 »CL7:Official Eurochart» (back then, it was
 called the Official Crusaders
 Eurochart) together with my mate »CL7:El
 Cubo / Crusaders»!

»CL1:EC:»CL0: Why did you decide to make the
 Eurochart back in 1989? What about 
 charts back then? Were there any? 

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: My friend and I were walking to
 the store one fine day, to buy some
 more coke (we were finishing a
 music-disk or something), and while
 we were walking we were discussing
 the scene, and how cool it would be
 to have a »CL7:"voting"» system for best
 group, best demo, best music-disk and
 all that. There were »CL7:no charts» in the
 scene then. So that's how the
 »CL7:Eurochart» was born; the first issue
 was released maybe 2 months later.


»CL1:EC:»CL0: How was it like releasing the
 chart in those days? Hard work? Many
 people in the EC-Staff? Or was it
 just you?

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: In the beginning it was just El
 Cubo and myself, we were the "main
 and only" editors :-). But after the
 3rd and 4th issue, things started to
 get quite big, so we had to get more
 help from the other guys in Crusaders
 as well. Around the 10th, 11th and
 12th issue, it started to get really
 crazy; we were about 5 or 6 guys
 »CL7:working almost full-time» with the
 Eurocharts (we had then also
 incorporated the disk-magazine part,
 »CL7:EuroNews», and the picture-album part,
 »CL7:The Gallery»).

»CL1:EC:»CL0: Looking back, what do you think of
 the scene back then? How was your
 relations to the
 elite-sceners?

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: The scene then was »CL7:f***ing
 great». It was full of life,
 competition, rumours, bad vibes and
 good vibes, wars between the cracker
 groups, ripping between the
 demo-groups (we were a demo-group,
 not a cracking group), everybody was
 "living and breathin" the scene, the
 new demos always had some
 groundbreaking new elements in them.
 In a word, it was really exciting.

»CL1:EC:»CL0: How popular did things get with
 the Eurochart back then? What was the
 maximum number of voters? And what
 about feedback? Many letters?

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: I think we had almost 1000 vote
 sheets coming in, at the worst. It
 was totally »CL7:crazy». Myself and El Cubo
 couldn't get any other stuff done;
 somebody else had to make the demos
 and music disks (earlier, El Cubo and
 myself had done most of that), and we
 were sitting up all night counting
 votes and reading and answering mail.

»CL1:EC:»CL0: How come you stopped? Did the
 pressure become too high, or was it
 just too much work?

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: It got out of hand, really. We
 spent all our time with it, the girls
 we knew didn't even want to see us
 anymore, we were ignoring real work
 and school, and the pile of mail just
 kept growing. In the beginning of
 1993, it really topped off. Both
 myself and El Cubo just had to put a
 stop to it, otherwise we would have
 to start a real EuroChart company or
 something. So the summer of 1993, we
 were completely burned out, and
 couldn't take any more. For christs
 sake, we hadn't even seen a movie for
 months. One day, in the middle of
 counting votes, we all looked at
 eachother, said »CL7:"fuck this"», and
 threw all the mail in the trash. 

»CL1:EC:»CL0: When did »CL1:Estrup/Static Bytes» (The
 next maineditor) enter the arena and
 the job as the head of the best chart
 ever (hehe) then? A friend of yours,
 perhaps?
»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: No, we didn't really know them -
 we just told people in the scene
 (through BBS's and word of mouth)
 that we were giving away the
 EuroChart to a group who could handle
   »PIC:Z11»
















 it. And »CL7:Static Bytes» came to us and
 said they wanted to do it. So they
 got it.  

»CL1:EC:»CL0: Well, it's been some time since
 you stopped. What have you been doing
 in the real world since then?

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: I have been moving into music
 professionally; in 1993 and 1994, I
 started to get a few more jobs as
 freelancer for game-music, and in
 1995 I started as the only full time
 in-house musician in »CL7:Team17 Software».
 So now I have worked for Team17
 Software for more than 2 years, and I
 have also released several CD albums.
 My first couple of albums were
 "private" releases, but now I have a
 record-contract and my albums are
 available in the record stores as
 well as the internet.  

»CL1:EC:»CL0: How about your Amiga then? I just
 happened to stumble over an old 
 Norwegian magazine from 1993, to
 which you had written a report from
 some expo in Norway - still
 »CL1:Amiga-addict» then! How about now?

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: I was a total and fanatic Amiga
 freak for many many years. It will
 for me always be the ultimate home
 computer. But now I use PC for my
 music, simply because there is so
 much better software for the PC. With
 a Pentium running Cakewalk Pro Audio,
 I can record MIDI tracks and audio
 tracks together in the sequencer,
 with the audio tracks being recorded
 directly to harddisk, I can then cut
 & paste, fade, crossfade, and edit
 the audio data as well as the MIDI
 data together on one screen. 

»CL1:EC:»CL0: Are you into the scene now? I
 mean, do you keep up to date with 
 what's happening? Are you attending
 the parties?

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: I keep up to date only with the
 most basic stuff, like who won the
 demo-competitions and
 music-competitions etc. I still go to
 »CL7:The Gathering» every year at Easter,
 up in Norway. It's quite a long way
 to go, since I live in »CL7:England» now -
 but The Gathering is a tradition and
 a really cool event, so every year I
 go up there.  

»CL1:EC:»CL0: How about a comeback :-) ?

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: I do comebacks all the time! The
 thing is, they are in games, or on CD
 albums. Let's face it, when you sit
 in a studio with all this fancy music
 gear around you, it's not easy to sit
 down and just write a tracker-module.
 I have paid lots of money for my
 synths and guitars, and I'll be
 damned if I'm not gonna use them! :-)

»CL1:EC:»CL0: What are you doing right now in
 the real world? Still only
 game-music, or other projects as
 well?

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: Right now I am trying to promote
 and sell my latest album »CL7:"The Void"».
 I am sending it out to underground
 magazines all over the world, and I
 think it's working pretty well. All
 this is of course in between my
 "real" job which is creating music
 and sound effects for Team17
 Software. Right now I am working on
 the sound & music for "Pinball
 Addiction", a Playstation- and PC
 game - and I'm soon going to start
 with the sound & music for "Worms 2".

»CL1:EC:»CL0: Thanks for answering the
 questions.

»CL7:Dr.A:»CL6: Hey no problem. Any time dude.
 Can I just add something? I would
 like all the old (and new!) Amiga
 freaks to come and visit my homepage!


   »CL8:http://www.team17.com/~blynne»
