
                         Seattle, Wa. (June 6, 1996)
                Opinion about kurt`s suicide by Courtney Love

        The  carriage  house  where  Seattle  alterna-icon Kurt Cobain
committed suicide is set to be torn down, despite the protests of many
Seattle  kids.   Cobain's widow Courtney Love, lead singer of the band
Hole,  has  said  that  she  will have the carriage house torn down to
restore  her privacy and stop the rush of onlookers who are making the
pilgrimage  to  Veretta  Park.  The park borders the Love/Cobain house
and  allows a relatively unobstructed view of the upper portion of the
greenhouse where Kurt killed himself with a shotgun in April of 1994.

        The  Seattle  daily newspaper, The Seattle Post-Intelligencer,
quoted  Courtney  Love  as  saying,  "I'm knocking down the greenhouse
where Kurt died because it's become bigger than the Space Needle!" The
tiny  Veretta  Park,  once just a blurb on a map and hardly noticeable
from  the  road, has now become a shrine to Kurt and his band Nirvana.
The  lone  park bench has grafitti all over it--"Tender Age in Bloom;"
"Kurt Forever."

        While  some  people  are content to just take pictures, others
try  to  take souvenirs...flowers, branches, dirt.  Love told the P-I,
"Some  of  them  try to climb the fence.  It's like beer cans littered
everywhere and icky debris.  Who wants to walk their dog tripping over
a  syringe?   This  is  my  (neighborhood)  park  and I can't bring my
daughter  into  my  park."  While Love's neighbors are happy about the
house coming down, others are upset.  "This is all we have to remember
Kurt," says Jase Deater--a 16 year old grunger from Enumclaw, Wa.  "If
Courtney  would  just  bury  his  ashes,  we'd have a place to say our
good-byes."

        As  of yet, Love has made no decision for Kurt's final resting
spot.  She reportedly is holding on to the ashes, preferring to spread
them around in different locales that were special to Kurt.  A central
grave  marker or a memorial would allow people to respect Kurt without
intruding  on the Love's privacy.  While the decision to tear down the
greenhouse  is a private and delicate matter, and the decision to tear
it  down  must  have  been  tough....there are still people who say it
should  be  preserved  for  posterity.   What do you think?  Post your
thoughts here.


                        Thanks... Jitterpeople

edited by ctp/mawi^link124
