ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»                      
                        THE SCENE 10 YEARS AGO«»
«»
«c3»By Zerox of Gods«»
«»
«»«as»
«c2»
The  master  of  recycling has returned to give you yet another article for
the EuroChart issue 48.«»
«»
Most  of  you  have witnessed the cool productions from the latest parties.
This  year  the  majority  of  the  top  productions  got  released  at the
Breakpoint party.  We salute the makers of productions such as Lvis, Noxie,
Multiverse,  Ocean  machine  and  more.   Even though there were quite many
releases  at  BP,  and  actually  there  are still being organized a decent
amount  of  parties each year, there's not much doubt that the scene in the
past  was way bigger.  Now it's time to take another dive into the past and
look back at the things that happened ten years ago; in 1995.«»
«»
1995  was a bit strange when it comes to the Amiga scene.  Some of the best
groups  faded  away  during  this year; like Sanity, Andromeda, Razor 1911,
Polka  Brothers  and  at the end, The Silents.  Perhaps they didn't all die
officially,  but  after  1995  I  don't  think  any  of the groups released
anything  special.   These are all legendary groups which had dominated the
scene  the previous years.  The various software companies really attracted
lots  of  talented  sceners,  and  a depressive attitude arrived among some
sceners.«»
«»
However,  let's take a look at some of the most important events that year.
I  think it was the first year the Symposium party in Germany got arranged.
And  a  group  which  later  on would influence the scene greatly, made its
debut there.  Artwork had lots of talented and respected sceners, like Tron
and Virgill to mention a few.  They released the demo Greenday, and won the
competition  ahead  of  Sanity  which Tron just recently had left.  Anyway,
Greenday  offers  some  cool music, a texture mapped cube which is rotating
and zooming with mirrors, a landscape routine, phong, a fast tunnel, gouraud
torus,  animations  and  some  more.  It was quite a nice first release of
Artwork.   Sanity  however,  released  their  new  version of Roots at that
party,  and  came  second  in  the  compo.   The  new  version was not much
different  from the first one, but offers at least some new gfx.  But after
my taste, not better.  Anyway, it's quite big and got lots of effects.  The
morph-effect  is quite cool.  At the same party some ok intros got out too,
like Boom by Lego and Florx by Bizarre Arts.  Who knew that the "Symposium"
parties later on would become the BEST party?«»
«»
At  other parties at the same time, some more good productions got out.  At
the  Gathering  party,  the  demo  Deep by Parallax and CNCD got presented.
It's  a  very  short  demo  actually, but it was definitely one of the best
demos  in  1995.   It  starts with a routine I find a bit psychedelic.  And
continues  with  many small routines, like a very cool and colorful tunnel
with  objects  inside,  a strange and special 'doom' landscape, some gouraud
objects, vector world etc.  The routine I like the most, in addition to the
tunnel, is a transparent cube displayed in front of a cool dolphin picture.
This  demo  deserved  to win.  The strange part was that it only got 3 more
points  than  the  demo  which came second.  That demo by Avalon had a good
design,  but  not  much  to offer at all.  All routines were old.  Also The
Black  Lotus  released  a  demo  there.  Lots of coders were present at the
party, but the demo wasn't very good I'm afraid.  It got many routines, but
mostly  old  ones.   I  like  the fast tunnel though.  The gfx was not good
either.   Anyway,  the  year  after  TBL  released a great demo.  You could
almost  believe  it was a totally different crew.  At this party however, a
few  ok  intros  got  out.   They  were  not  really good, but at least got
something  to  offer.  Like Wormhole by Spaceballs which won the party.  No
doubt  that it was the best one.  Spaceballs also came second by their Last
Finger  intro  which  was  done  by  Major  Asshole  with the help of a new
Spaceballs member:  Slummy.  Slummy became much better later on.  The intro
itself  got  quite  many  routines,  but  nothing  extraordinary.  The most
important with this intro, was the message by Major Asshole to the software
companies  and  that  Slummy got his debut.  Slummy has ever since been the
coding force of Spaceballs.  Also Complex released an ok intro there.«»
«»
Anyway,  TG  95  was a disaster.  Real bad organizing, and only half of the
amount  of  sceners  as  the  previous year.  The reason for this, was that
TG'95  was held in another part of the country and by other organizers than
before.  They were inexperienced, and the location made it hard for sceners
to  come  from  Sweden for instance.  The good things that came out of this
party,  were  the demo Deep and a 4k intro named Babenoice by Lone Starr of
Spaceballs.   The 4k is really great, and the best 4k presented until then.
It  got  an  awesome  crunching  routine  by the way.  Of course it won the
party.   Well,  this  year  was  the  start  of  the  real  downfall of The
Gathering.  We all thought the 1994 party was bad, but compared to TG95 and
later  parties,  it was really great!  Because in 1994 and the year before,
the  party  was  dominated  by  Amiga sceners.  Later on, PC people were in
majority.  I'm not talking about PC sceners, but gamers.«»
«»
At  the  Assembly  party  that  summer,  a  few  very good productions were
presented.  I would say both the demos and intros were better than the ones
released  at  the  Eastern parties.  First I'll write a few words about the
demos.   ZIF  by Parallax offers a lot of cool effects.  It has some picture
waving,  a blurring parallax logo, phong-shading, strange spiral twister, a
very  cool  face  which  impressed  many,  a  very nice texture mapped Glass
mirror, a cool WW bobble object which was a great effect then, a tunnel and
some  strange toruses moving and transforming, to mention the main effects
of  this  demo.   This was more than enough to impress the audience and win
the  competition.   Pygmy  Projects  also  competed with another demo, it's
called  Logic.   This  demo also offers a lot of routines and is quite good
after  my  opinion.  It came second.  The third demo is also good, and made
by Stellar!  It has a logo in 3d, a cool object, landscape and more.  But I
like  the  4th  demo better.  It's in fact the last demo I ever saw from the
legendary Silents!  The demo is called Fruitkitchen and works on a standard
A1200.  Only the music is enough to run the demo...  it got one of the best
demo  modules  ever  after  my  opinion.   The  demo opens with a landscape
routine  while  showing  the  credits.  Already now we know that the design
will  be  good.   It kind of copies some of the Nexus 7 routines and music,
like  while showing their version of the 'disco-ball'.  It offers some cool
vector  worlds,  a  doom-tunnel,  and  a  great light reflection routine to
mention some of the effects.  I really like this demo.  Too bad I never saw
the promised follow-up demo Blood Kitchen!  The Silents faded away...  Many
intros  also  got  out  at Assembly.  I think they are much better than the
ones at TG and Symposium.  Especially the two Sonik Clique intros are good.
The  winner  intro  FAD  had  some  cool objects which were moving back and
forward  in  natural  motion.  It had many phong-donuts, transforming, and a
good fire effect.  Sonik also came third, with the intro Blur.  It had some
phong-shaded torouses, a kind of twister routine and blurred gouraud.  Quite
good!  Also Hauki was good, some others were quite good too.«»
«»
At  the  GASP  party  that  summer, some good demos and many ok intros were
released.  One good demo was the Control demo by Oxygene.  Later that year,
they  released  an  even  better  demo  at The Party.  However, the 040 and
better processors won't get much pleasure out of Control I'm afraid.  Others
will  be able to watch an enjoyable demo.  X-Orgasm by Syndrome is worth to
have  a  look  at  as  well.  There were also many intros presented at this
party.   They  were  quite  ok,  but  not  amazing.   The  winner  intro by
DreamDealers  didn't  include  many  routines, only some blur and a
doom-routine.  Personally I like other intros better.  Take a look at
them.«»
«»
Also  at  other  parties  some  ok  demos  got out, like at the Somewhere in
Holland  party «c1»(first price in the demo compo was some quality time with a 
prostitute.. Those were the times ;) - ED). «c2»  Melon  Design released two demos, 
Baygon and Planet M.  I think  Baygon is quite ok, it came second.  Also Planet M, which won, is ok
after  my  opinion.  But some sceners at that time didn't like them at all,
and  were  saying that Melon Dezign was going down.  At the same party Axis
released  their  Picture  Book!   I  think  also this party offered some ok
intros, like Rose and Siesta.«»
«»
This  year Scoopex presented another demo, and many well-known sceners even
today  participated;  like Antibyte, Made, Absurd and Laxical.  The demo is
called Alien, and have quite some routines; torus inside torus, rotating
and  zooming  cube,  a  stress-routine, blurred morphed skull, gouraud cube,
cool  color  palettes etc.  The demo got released at the Abduction party,
and  came  second.  The winner demo was done by Stellar.  It's called Human
Excrement.   It  starts  off with moving in a texture mapped landscape, then
some  of the same objects as in the intro FAD by Sonik Clique appears.  And
afterwards,  some  really great objects are being shown.  But it's a short
demo after my opinion, and I prefer Alien.«»
«»
The  best productions this year, were released at the Party.  The best demo
without any doubt, was Closer by CNCD.  Not many months earlier, the coding
duo  Juliet  &  Case had delivered a pretty good demo at The Assembly party
called  C42.   But  their appearance at The Party brought them a lot more
success.    Closer   feature  environment  mapping,  picture  waving,  very
impressive  bump  mapping,  3d  shading using a new kind of reflection with
light  accumulation,  some  light  balls where the reflection hit our eyes,
some  new  shading,  textured  wrapping, rotating landscape with white fog,
envmapped  tunnel, strange spirals and the best bump mapping made so far; a
moving  light  on  a  rough  colored surface.  Watch it!  Also some of the
other  demos  were  quite  good,  like  Vision  by  Oxygene.  It got a cool
introduction,  phong shaded torus, twister, many great objects in a vector
world,  many  ordinary  filled vectors, some picture movements, environment
mapping  and  reflection,  gouraud  objects etc.  I guess the routines which
impressed  many  people  were  the  spaceship  race  on  a vector track and
especially  the  running  man  inside  the building trying to reach an exit
before  the door closes.  The bad thing about this demo, is that it doesn't
work  on  040  processors  or  higher.  What to say:  degrade!  ;) Also the
short  demo  by  Virtual  Dreams was good.  Faktory at least offers some 3d
environment   mapped   objects,   sphere   distortions   and  a  bump mapped
plasma-effect.«»
«»
Anyway, some real impressive work was shown in an intro.  I'm not talking
about  the  40k intros, but the 4k intro by Artwork called Dawn!  It offers
a lot  more than almost all 40k intros released until that point in history.
Azure  did  a  great  job with imploding blurred text, multiple palettes,
flexible  object  creator,  phong shading, moving light source, environment
mapping,  env glenz motion blur, motion blurred env-mapped object morphing,
some  very  simple  highfield mapping with depthshading (voxelspace), 2 new
and fast routines in fullscreen 2x2 pixels.  And it also got a good design.
It's  simply  great!  As for the 40k intros, they were not that impressive.
Creep  by  Polka  Brothers  and Artwork had some of the same routines as in
Dawn,  and  some  flexible torus with a good bump mapping routine.  It also
had  the  picture movement routine.  This was more than enough to win.  The
intro  which came third, was Free Your Mind by Scoopex.  It had environment
mapped  3d routines.  There's a impressive routine when a hand is trying to
exit  from  a  wall.  Anyway, the intro that came second offered some phong
torus, blurred cubes and fire zoom.  It's called Headcase and done by
Axis.«»
«»
Other  good demos this year were Lech by Freezers.  It got real speed, good
code by Sputnik and good music by Beethoven.  It offers many routines, like
some cities; one futuristic and one gouraud shaded, gouraud pulse, lightened
texturemapped  objects,  very  cool  doom-landscape,  plasma  objects,  and
lightsourced  torus  inside  torus  to  mention a few.  Also Impossible by
Mystic is a good demo.  It got released at the Primavera party I think.  At
Virtual  Conspiracy  C-Lous released a small demo called Omen.  It got some
cool  routines, like a glass goraud, big torus, tunnel, spiral gouraud twist
etc.   C-Lous  also  released  another  small  demo  called  Masque  at the
Compusphere  party.   It got some great objects.  You can have a look at the
winner  demo also, its from Craze.  But its not that good after my opinion.
Pulp  is  also  a demo from 1995, done by Movement.  Its quite ok too.  The
same  are Passengers by 3 Little Elks, Zombie by Union, Crazy Sexy Cool by
Essence  and  Falukorv  by  Razor  1991 and perhaps Future by Gods.  As for
other  ok  intros,  Malta  intro  by  Essence,  On the rush by Melting Pot,
Pulsion  by Silicon, Herb by Polka Brothers and of course quite many others
released at Assembly and The Party.«»
«»
In  any  case,  when  it comes to effects fractals were out, dot landscapes
too, and you didn't see many demos with ordinary filled vectors.  This year
every  demo  had  to include texturemapping with some zooming and rotating.
Also  picture  movements,  env  mapping,  some phongs, tunnels, landscapes,
goraud  objects,  blurred  objects;  like  toruses  and really all kind of
toruses,   various  shadings,  reflections  and  mirrors,  morph  effects,
twisters, various city-routines, voxelspace and some bump mapping.«»
«»
One  of  a  few  good slideshows this year was SUN by TRSI.  It was done by
Lazur.  He had begun to get noticed in 1994, but got a lot more attention in
1995.   Also  Artcore  by  Scoopex  was  great.   It was done by Made/Bomb.
Bridgeclaw/Gods  presented the slideshow A Few Good Men, and along with the
other  slideshows  mentioned,  it  hit  the  charts.   Fiver/TRSI  and then
Artwork,  released  a  nice slideshow too, named HoneyComb.  Cyberspace got
released  by  Anadune.  Last, but not least, Pixel Storm was done by Abyss.
These got to be the best slideshows in 1995.«»
«»
As for musicdisks, there were quite a few good ones.  I especially remember
DreamWalker by Freezers.  It was really good with music from Dreamer.  Also
Memorial  Songs  II  from  Razor  1911  featuring music from Lizardking was
great.   Chorus  and Sid presented their Crossroads under the Jewels label.
I  also  have to mention the musicdisk called Infection released by Mystic.
The songs were composed by Xtd!«»
«»
In  the mag world many good things happened.  After my opinion 1995 was the
best  mag  year  ever!   Well,  also  1994 was great!  Anyway, RAW, ROM and
Upstream  were  the  best mags around.  Also D.I.S.C.  came back to produce
one  great  issue.   Other  good mags that year, were The Charts, Gedan and
SeenPoint.   But  many  things  happened;  Upstream  faded away as the team
split.   Cesium  quit  and  after  a  while wanted to support D.I.S.C.  and
Wolfman didn't have the energy to continue on his own even though Mount had
joined  the forces.  Rumors were saying that Excel was taking over, but he
failed  to  release  one  single issue.  Lord Helmet quit as main.ed of RAW
after  years  with  success, and Astro took over.  ROM under the command of
MOP  was  rising.   The  Charts  got in trouble at the end of the year, but
continued  the  next  year as ShowTime.  The EuroChart was in more trouble,
and  didn't  manage  to release more than issue 27 at the very beginning of
the  year.   Depth  took  over  in  1996  and  continued  the famous chart.
D.I.S.C.   got  in  trouble  again  because  of  some missing graphics etc.
Propaganda faded away too, just like Abnormalia.«»
«»
The  ruling packs were all made by TRSI; NeverMind, It and Speed!  And IRIS
continued their A Pack Of Fun with some success.«»
«»
The  best  groups this year, got to be Parallax and CNCD, along with groups
like  Virtual  Dreams,  Oxygene, Stellar, Freezers, Scoopex, Artwork, Polka
Brothers,  Pygmy  Projects,  The  Silents and perhaps Melon Design, C-Lous,
TRSI,  Spaceballs and Bomb.  However, groups like Sanity and Andromeda were
still ruling the charts.  It always take quite some time before the changes
reflect in the various charts around.«»
«»
1995  was  the year of texture and environment mapping, phongs, gouraud and
blur.   And  trackmos  were  definitely  on  the way out, as HD-installable
productions were favored.  I haven't seen many trackmos after 1995
anyway.«»
«»
After  reading  about 1995, you may get the impression that this was a very
good  scene  year  with  lots of quality productions?  If so, you're wrong.
After  my  opinion 1995 was one of the worst years.  The optimism was gone,
many  real  talented sceners and groups faded away.  Many had began working
in  various  software  companies, especially many Scandinavians.  And there
were  not  many  high  quality productions this year.  The mag scene was in
change  too.   And  the  news  about  the  Amiga  were  real depressing and
confusing.   However,  some  new  promising groups got born too.  And if we
would  just have half of the number of active groups now, and get around 50
% of the productions which got released back then now in 2005, we would all
be very very happy.  On the positive side, the scene is still alive in 2005
despite  of all the negativity the last ten years, and not that many people
are  leaving  the  scene nowadays.  It will be very interesting to see what
the  rest  of 2005 and the next years will bring the scene.  Participate if
you want to read a similar article as this in ten years from now.«»
«»
«e»