ecnew.font,8
セ
첺c뺀c1 Eating some digital snowflakes with...セ
                                Azzaro of Madwizardsセ
セ
첽3틼y Ghandy of Scarab, Moods Plateau & Devianceセ
첺s뺀뺀c2
Let's have a breakfast with the father of one of the most decisive Amiga groups 
of the last decade! Their first productions being recognized and appreciated 
outside of their own country showed up in the late 90s. But the real first prod 
that Pouet.net could find was the political and rather unknown "kah835gb" demo 
by Floppy & MadWizards from August 1997.セ
セ
Let's forbid Azzaro to booze until he promises us to make at least one last demo 
for the classic Amiga series. You must know that they gave Scarab the promise 
that they would continue doing 68k productions in case we would show up with a 
decent demo at Symphony, which we did with "My definition in blue", in 2003. But 
this group is not only concentrating on newer or older Amiga's. Together with 
Nah Kolor they presented the highly successful and scene.org awarded Windows 
demo "Planet Loop" at Tum 2002, not to forget some video demos. Or for example 
the 16 seconds win demo "16 sandy steps", from Abstract 04. But let's finally 
get into the conversation.セ
セ
첽1팄handy: First of all please introduce yourself to the readers with the usual 
content. I hope you like the breakfast I have prepared for you. Only the 
alcohol's missing... ;-)セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: Hei there all Eurochart readers worldwide. I'm Tomasz "Azzaro" 
Wisniewski, age 27, single and working as head IT specialist
and graphics designer at a small company in Koszalin, in north western Poland 
where I live. I haven't much free time for hobbies but I can say that I'm 
addicted to the demoscene. I was celebrating my little 10th anniversary of 
"being a demoscener" on July 12th this year. 10 years ago I sent my first 
letters with disks to other famous and infamous guys and officially started my
demoscene career  ;)セ
セ
첽1팄handy: How did it happen that you began to be interested into the
Scene?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: I'm living in quite a big demoscene city centre. Koszalin was always 
respected on the Polish demoscene map, so when I was bored playing
and playing games I started to find some other ways to use my beloved Amiga CDTV 
(1993-1995). Since we were kids, I was in contact with Qix and he showed me a 
lot of scene related stuff, and then I asked him to travel with me to my first 
computer-party. Thank god it was Intel Outside II (1995) - the biggest and most 
memorable polish demoparty ever organised. So, I tried to make modules (don't 
ask about it anymore ;)), and then lame graphics, but I wasn't good at pixel 
work on classic Amiga. So I tried swapping and ascii making after that
and enjoyed it very much. Gee, it's over ten years ago - I never expected it to 
take that big a part of my life... But if I had to choose I'd start that way 
again for sure.セ
セ
첽1팄handy: You are giving each Madwizards demo its specific design. Which aspects 
are important for you designwise? How do you work on your pictures -
do you have everything in your mind when beginning to draw or does that come 
with time? Or do you develop that together with the other people working on the 
demos, which would mostly be Kiero?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: The truth lies behind this. When we start to develop a new Madwizards' 
project I'm responsible for the whole production aspect - collecting the 
demoteam, handing out the work for all team members, sending specific requests 
to other people and writing demo treatment (king of pre-screenplay). When 
musicians, modellers and texture makers do their works on simple modules, Kiero 
is writing basic code and new effects. Then we gather, booze, and talk about any 
new ideas like specific demo elements or camera targeting. When I get objects I 
start working on graphics. To be honest - when we start working on yet another 
"we are better this year, TBL!" demo, over 50% of the ideas are changed during 
the compilation of all the materials into one working piece. I, as lead designer 
of the project, am responsible for the overall look of the whole production - 
starting from colour themes through screenplay, effects succession and ending at 
the project title.セ
セ
When I start my part of the work I have almost everything in my head. I draw 
some basic sketches of effect pictures with a pen and then try to make
them the digital way. Fullscreen or image processing pictures are sometime real 
freestyle but demo materials should be done just for the project and represent 
one kind of style (of course each picture is different). When I work on my 
pictures, I try to focus the attention of the watchers on some aspect. The thing 
I love in image processing is that you can watch such pictures (good ones) 
longer than pixel works and still find some new elements in them. Starting from 
one big motive and arriving at smaller and smaller pieces in the corners - I 
like this.セ
セ
Of course we develop everything together while talking about the project - I 
always try to contact members who can help others with some work and I try to 
coordinate the project. Finally everything goes to Kiero and after a short or 
long period of time we met each other to the final assembling when polishing the 
effects, do the last changes and synchronise everything with the sound. Believe 
me - it's hard work and almost nobody enjoys the demo after the final 
compilation after watching it hundreds of times :)セ
セ
첽1팄handy: When being present at Breakpoint or Mekka'Symposium I often thought that 
you deserved a better place with your demos. On the other hand, beating TBL is 
quite a hard task if you ask me. It must be a sort of tradition that these 
Swedes win as it's in the same way a tradition that all over Europe, the kids 
search for chocolate eggs on the ground during the Easter days. But however, if 
there's no goal that you try to reach, there's no motivation to keep going 
either.セ
セ
Who were the graphicians or demos that influenced you and your style?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: I always tried to improve my own style but of course there are lot of 
influences in my pictures. The artist I respect most for his works, especially 
1997-2002 image processing is of course Visualice. A genius of typography and 
mixing elements. Respect!セ
セ
첽1팄handy: Did you feel limited or else why did you leave the platform of the 
classical Amiga some years ago after Amsterdam Blessings?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: I have nothing to say as long as Kiero is my coding-machine. Of course 
making "Amsterdam Blessings" was a big limitation - we spend a lot of
days optimising the code, objects and effects to work at an acceptable speed on 
the classic Amiga. Then Kiero bought ppc and after that Pegasos,
so we move with our projects to this environment. A lot of limitations were 
removed and we did our best demo in 2001, too - "Cruel Karma Forms".
I think we'll never beat this feeling while making the demo and the shocked 
audience at Symphony`01. Imagine this; Kiero wants to do a demo
for Playstation 2, but instead I think we'll move to the pc in the not so long 
future as Kiero is now working on a new engine woth Bonzaj. Bonzaj want Kiero
to join Plastic so if this happens I think we announce the death of Madwizards 
and move on ourselves in "glory".  :) セ
セ
첽1팄handy: What`s the next step? Demos for the AmigaOne, Pegasos, PC, like the 
fantastic 16seconds demo, or will you mostly stay on PPC?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: "16 sandy steps" was done by Galon, our new coding star. When Kiero 
moves himself out of the group, I think Galon will be my next code-mate.
We started to develop a new demo for pc with some fantastic music but time will 
tell when we can finish this project. Also time will tell what YOU GUYS
will see, and I think whatever it will be, we can meet each other in the .avi 
form for sure ;) Thanks to Kiero we became console demomakers and no
one is voting for us in the democharts so yes - platform doesn't matter for us 
as long as we enjoy the work we do... セ
セ
첽1팄handy: Does the platform matter anymore as everybody's watching the avi`s 
nowdays?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: I don't think so. I smile to myself when pc users have to watch the 
newest demos in animation form because their graphics cards or processors
are too slow to run the hits of nowadays. Remember the laughs of pc users when 
the only possibility of watching new demos for an Amiga user was at a copy 
party? History changes :) セ
セ
첽1팄handy: Watching nowadays 68k demos, what do you think about them?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: Mostly I don't like the majority except The Black Lotus releases. TBL 
and Ephidrena means design, atmosphere and visual effects. Other demos are jokes 
or look like 1995-1998 releases, so if you saw each effect with lame graphics, 
no art conception, no design and no idea how to show your work for the 
thousandth time, the only thing you want to do is vomit.セ
セ
Come on guys, show us something fresh, some new ideas, design conceptions,
ART!セ
セ
첽1팄handy: Is the polish Scene connected very well to the rest of Europe or do you 
feel separated?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: Personally I think I'm not separated as I travel through Europe and 
visit other parties. Foreigners come to polish parties and we always had lot of 
talking, idea exchanging and boozing of course. Of course not so many Poles are 
cosmopolitans and they want to stay home and read the reports from parties from 
others, but I think in these internet times staying separated is quite
hard.セ
セ
첽1팄handy: How did it come to be that the Symphony takes place at the same weekend 
as Evoke does?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: I think everything is ok as almost no Poles wanted to go to Evoke and 
not so many foreigners want to visit such a small party as Symphony, in 
comparison to Breakpoint or Evoke. I think everything will work ok and we'll try 
to establish something like party-to-party bridges and show the best releases 
from one party on the bigscreen at the other party. I think Silentriot is 
working hard on this hard.セ
セ
첽1팄handy: All of you are getting older and older. How`s Madwizards looking like in 
three or five years? Will it be a game producing company or something
else?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: Hehe, Flapjack had a special plan to register Madwizards as a non-profit 
society and gather funds from the European Union Commisions for making
new demos as some kind of artistic performance - maybe we'll work this way. I 
always wanted Madwizards to be a registered trademark and some kind
of art company. In the near future, time will tell what will happen.セ
セ
첽1팄handy: What are your private future plans jobwise?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: I've quit my actual job and I had to work there till the end of August. 
Then I'm free and in play. Job offers are welcome of course :) セ
セ
첽1팄handy: Anybody you'd like to greet at the end before we stop having our 
breakfast?セ
セ
첽2틻zzaro: The list is really long so I greet everybody I met in my scene career, 
everybody who likes or hates me and of course all of You beloved
"Eurochart" readers. Kisses and handshakes from all of the Madwizards' demoteam 
to all of You. Boooセ
セ
첽1팄handy: More milk for me and more beer for you then! Greets back to Poland! And 
don't forget the promised 68k demo!セ
セ
첿