ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
                           BREAKPOINT PARTY REPORT«»
«»
«c3»By Zerox of Gods«»
«»«al»
«c4»Introduction«»
«c2»«»«as»
The  third  Breakpoint  party took place between the 25th and 28th of March
2005  in  Bingen  am  Rhein, which is located in the south-west of Germany.
Even  though  this is the third Breakpoint party, this years edition was in
some  ways different than the previous parties.  This was mainly due to the
fact  that  the  party  got  a totally new location this year.  Except from
this, most things were as usual.«»
«»
The  Breakpoint  party  was  a celebration of digital art, which means that
creative  persons  from various computer platforms could show their skills.
There  were  sceners  from  the  C64  scene, Atari-scene, the PC-scene, the
console  scene,  and of course from the Amiga scene.  I'll naturally mostly
focus on the last.«»
«»
«c4»«al»Facilities«»
«c2»«»«as»
The  facilities  have  improved a lot compared to the previous editions of
the  Breakpoint  party.   This  is because the party location was moved from
Bundeswehrdepot to the Rundsporthalle.«»
«»
This  year  everything was to be found inside the same hall.  There were no
separate  sleeping hall, no mobile WC wagons, and no long bus ride to travel
to  the  showers.  No, this year there was just one big hall which probably
could  room  between 700 and 1000 people when considering there should be a
table and a chair for everyone, but far from everyone actually brought with
them  a computer.  I guess there were around 700 visitors all in all at the
Breakpoint  party.   The main area was just the perfect size for the people
that  met  up.   In  the  main area there was located a bigscreen, and the
quality of the projector was quite good.  The sound-equipment was good too.
There was a network running where it was possible to chat with both sceners
present  at the party and others at the irc channel #breakpoint, and it was
possible  to  download  breakpoint  releases, check the timetable, vote and
more.  There were several ok toilets and showers, on both sides of the main
area.   This  was  a  huge  improvement, and for those that still wonder...
yes, the temperature was very pleasant inside the hall.«»
«»
The hall was linked together with a chillout-tent, which also served as the
entrance.   This  was also the place you went to contact the organizers for
whatever  reason.   It  was also possible to buy something to drink in this
tent, like coca-cola, beer, bottle-water and more.  In the chillout-tent it
was  also  possible  to sit, and also watch, through a mini bigscreen, what
events happened in the main area.«»
«»
There  were 3 mobile wagons where we could buy various food.  In fact, there
were quite many different types of food to get.  And the prices were ok, at
least  compared  to most parties around.  So we can't really complain about
that.   But  if you weren't satisfied, then you could walk a few minutes to
the  various  supermarkets  and  gas stations, or go down to a restaurant or
whatever.«»
«»
The  outdoor  area  was not very big compared to the previous location, but
more  than  big  enough.   There  was  still a nice bonfire there, and also
tables.   This place was closer to the center and therefore we had to be a
bit more quiet than we had to at the deserted place up hill.«»
«»
All  in  all,  the new location and facilities was a huge improvement.  The
only negative was perhaps the noise in the main area, which could make it a
bit  hard  to  sleep.   But  hey...   you  shouldn't sleep too much at such
parties anyway... unless you're an old goat like me.«»
«»
«c4»«al»The Party«»
«c2»«»«as»
The  party offered lots of various entertainment.  There were various bands
that  played, and the crowd really liked it.  To some bands lots of sceners
were  dancing  around.   There  were naturally lots of competitions for all
platforms.   The  active  demo  forces were present at this party, and some
managed  to make some stunning productions.  Not only in the normal 4k, 64k
and demo compos.  For instance StingRay of Scarab made a very cool game
(a  complete  remake  of Lotus Esprit Challenge) and of course won the game
compo.  Clary of Drifters won the surprise democompo with a funny demo, and
there  were  lots  of  cool  productions  in  all  categories  shown at the
bigscreen.   There  were  lots  of  good music and gfx, and especially some
entries in the animation/video compo were enjoyable.  There were some other
happenings  on  stage,  but not too much.  The scene award was presented as
well.   This was very enjoyable.  Perhaps the organizers could come up with
even   more   entertainment/happenings  from  the  stage  next  year.   The
atmosphere  was  really  relaxed,  and lots of people just chilled outside.
These  meetings  in  the  underground scene is all about meeting your scene
friends and perhaps getting a few new ones.  It was a great party.«»
«»
«c4»«al»The productions«»
«c2»«»«as»
This  year  there  were  enough  Amiga productions in all the competitions.
Unfortunately some groups didn't manage to finish their productions in time
for  the  compo  as  every  year.  Nevertheless, there were quite some good
contributions  in  all  the  various competitions.  Check out my production
reviews elsewhere in the Eurochart.«»
«»
«c4»Conclusion«»
«c2»«»
The  first attempt of organizing the Breakpoint party at a new location was
successful  after  my  opinion.   We  got  all  what  we  needed there.  The
atmosphere  was  great as always, we meet our friends and fellow sceners in
addition  to  watching  some  great productions.  What more can we ask for?
And  besides,  the  productions  released  on all platforms were very good.
There  are  no better computer party around the globe than Breakpoint right
now, and this is digital culture at its best.  Thumbs up!«»
«»
So  there's no reason for you not to take the trip to Breakpoint next
year.«»
«»
«e»