ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
                           BREAKPOINT PARTY PRODUCTIONS«»
«»
«c3»By Zerox of Gods«»
«c2»«»«as»
If  you've  already  read my small Breakpoint party report, you can now read
how  I experienced the productions live at the Breakpoint party.  Of course
you may totally disagree about my reviews, but I couldn't really care less.
It's  just  my  opinion.   The  only ones reading reviews, are probably the
makers  of  some of the productions anyway.  Nevertheless, there were quite
some good contributions in all the various competitions.«»
«»
It's  time  to  have  a closer look at the various productions.  Let's start
with the 4k-intros.  At Breakpoint there were five intros into the
compo.«»
«»
«c5»Cracktro 4k by Scarab«»
«c2»«»
This  intro  was just a blast of the past.  StingRay has recreated an intro
in  the  old  cracktro  style.   He  did  the  code and gfx, in addition to
converting  the  old module originally done by 4-mat/Anarchy.  We get to see
some  copper  bars,  and  in  between  a moving starfield.  There's added a
text-routine,  and also the old sinus-scroller.  This was quite a nice trip
into nostalgia.  Well done.  The intro came 5th in the compo.«»
«»
«c5»Evil by IRIS«»«c2»
«»
This  intro  was created by the coder duo Dr. Doom and Xeron.  You won't see
any stunning effects in this intro, but discover pure evil.  We get to hear
a  scary  humming  sound  (created  by  Xeron),  while seeing the IRIS logo
surrounded  by  some reddish design.  Next up is a fullscreen picture of the
head  of  a  man.   We  hear the screaming noise/humming, and then see some
switching  of  pictures between the head and a banged asshole.  Then we see
the  reddish  design  around  the end sign.  That's it really.  It's just an
evil  experience.   To  have a closer look at the second fullscreen picture
(the  evil stuff) within this 4k, then just hold the right mouse button.  I
have never seen two fullscreen pictures in any 4k before, but then again...
there's  some  faking  involved here.  I've never seen such evil within any
production before either.  This intro came 4th in the compo.«»
«»
«c5»Totenkreuz by Tulou«»«c2»
«»
This  is  not the first 4k by Tulou, but perhaps the best one so far.  It's
coded  by Todi, and the music is done by Esau/Traktor.  First we get to see
something  which  reminds  me  of  a  pedestrian crossing.  Anyway, this is
turning  into  a tunnel-effect.  Then we see some blurred red bobs (balls).
Afterwards  the blurred bobs get mixed with the tunnel-routine.  At the end
we  get  to see the blurred bobs melting together, and the sign Tulou.  All
in  all,  quite  ok  but  still below average.  The intro came third in the
compo.«»
«»
«c5»Lvis by Scarab«»«c2»
«»
This was the first really quality intro we got to see.  It's created by the
very  experienced  4k-coder  Scicco,  with the help of StingRay.  Music was
done  by DC.Clark as always.  This intro is like most Scarab intros, filled
with  various  effects  done with a nice touch of design.  It's perhaps the
best  Scarab  4k so far.  The intro starts off with the Scarab (S) sign and
some  reddish  design  lines  hitting the screen.  Next up is an interesting
effect,  it's  blurred  lines  /  particles  or  whatever which is creating
special  patterns  in  greenish  colours.   It  continues with new moves in
bluish,  filling  the  screen.  Then a new effect which looks a bit like a
star  in  yellow  colours  appears,  and  the  title  L-vis gets displayed.
Afterwards  we see an evolving blurred red object going in all directions,
before  a  big  blurred  zoomed  (S)  sign in orange colours appears.  This
"demo"  continues with some more blurred lines in green and yellow.  Then a
blue  cylinder  object  with  some  sparkling blurred lines hit the screen.
Next up is an object formed in the shape of a red heart while the greetings
are being displayed.  Afterwards we get to see another star object in pink.
At the end we see some bluish waves across the screen.  Everything is timed
perfectly  to  the  music.   All  in  all, a very nice intro with many good
details  and  effects  in  one  screen.   Also a great samplecalculator and
samplegenerator  was  used  to do this intro.  The intro came second in the
compo.«»
«»
«c5»Noxie by Loonies«»«c2»
«»
This  intro  is being coded by yet another experienced 4k-coder; Blueberry.
The music is done by Maytz.  The intro starts off with a greyish landscape.
We're   moving  slowly  forwards  for  quite  some  time.   Then  some  big
texturemapped  objects  which  are  glowing  appear.   Everything  is timed
perfectly  to  the  very  nice  music.   This looks really cool.  The intro
continues  with  a tunnel which is changing colours from greyish/green into
greyish/orange  and  more.   Then  we're  seeing  some  strange  objects  /
landscape  in  orange colours before the end objects in bluish appear.  The
awesome  music  and  synchronization, done with one heavy routine made this
intro win the compo.  Very good.«»
«»
This year there were actually four 64k-intros to review, but none were very
good I'm afraid.  Some were ok though.«»
«»
«c5»We're still alive by Depth«»«c2»
«»
This small intro was coded by Skurk, some gfx work was done by Sprocket and
the  very nice chiptune music was made by Curt Cool.  The intro offers some
twisting  bars,  a  waving  logo-routine  and  a  sinus  scroller which is
endless.   Well,  that's  about all really.  It could perhaps been done for
the 4k intro compo instead, hehe.  Nostalgia rules anyway.  This intro came
4th in the compo.«»
«»
«c5»Scotch Egg by Dr. Pickle & Moped«»«c2»
«»
This  intro was made in a real hurry right before the deadline just because
some  RNO  guys  asked for an intro.  The organizers had told them that the
intro  compo  would  be  cancelled without a third contribution.  Well, the
coding  duo  just  found  a  cool  chiptune on their harddisk, and tried to
locate  a  fitting  effect  which  wasn't  too  big.  After some debugging,
everything was ready within one and a half hour.  The intro just offers one
effect,  which  is  a  rotating  texturemapped female body.  In addition to
that, there's running a scrolltext over the effect.  All in all, not bad at
all, but it's not really a well done 64k filled with various effects.  Some
of  you will probably notice that the coder duo behind this intro also used
the same font in a demo under their real handles.  They even delivered a 4k
intro  under  their  group label.  In any case, the 64k intro is ok and the
creators  managed  to deliver it before the deadline.  The intro came third
in the compo.«»
«»
«c5»MIO5 by RNO«»«c2»
«»
This  is  the  first  serious  contribution, and was coded by Britelite and
music was done by RM.  Unlike the other intros mentioned, this intro offers
quite  many  effects.  It got minimalist design and monochrome touch to
it  all.  Everything is in grey colours and the music is well synchronized.
The  intro  starts  off  with some nice particles or whatever they might be
called,  before  the RNO logo appears in front of it.  Next up is something
which  looks like a vector object (almost like a glenz-vector).  Then we get
to see some blurred lines forming a tunnel, and the name MI05 appears.  The
blurred  lines are moving and changing.  Afterwards the Amiga-balls appear,
and  some  commercial  for the Motorola Inside party.  This intro is in fact
the  invitation  intro  for  that  party.   Then  follows  a row of bobs or
something  which  is  moving  like  a snake.  The intro ends with something
which  looks  like a big vector object.  That's it.  The intro is quite ok,
but  I  think I've seen quite many of these greyish productions and effects
from  RNO.  In any case, the intro at least offers some nice routines and a
nice overall design.  The intro came second in the compo.«»
«»
«c5»A Dream 2 by Scoopex«»«c2»
«»
This  intro  was  coded by StingRay of Scarab & Scoopex, and the cool gfx was
done  by  Noogman  and  music  was done by Ganja.  StingRay told me that he
first thought about making an intro two days before the party, and actually
coded  this  more  or less during the party.  In any case, the intro starts
off  with pieces of a big Scoopex logo appearing, and then the Scoopex sign
is  being  zoomed  into  the  screen.   Next  up  is  a  nice texturemapped
twister-effect,  and  then the Scoopex logo appears in the background again
with  a  changing object in front of it.  We get to see some more effects /
waving-routine  over  it, and part 2 get displayed.  Afterwards a very cool
cube  appears in front of the Scoopex logo which has changed colours again.
Then  some  big  lilac  bobbles  or  something is moving across the screen.
There  is  also a poem being displayed beside all the effects.  All in all,
an  ok  64k intro.  It got a nice text, a few ok effects, nice gfx and nice
music  too.   Some  might  discover that the music has already been used in
another  production  though.   In any case, the winner of last years compo,
managed to win the 64k intro compo one more time.«»
«»
Now   over   to   the   highlight  of  Breakpoint,  the  demo  competition.
Unfortunately I can't really remember all the demos as well as I wanted to.
I  just  made  some  quick notes while watching all the entries live at the
bigscreen at Breakpoint.«»
«»
«c5»Shaijzse-dejmo by Hardcore lamers«»«c2»
«»
This  demo  didn't  make  a lasting impact on anyone.  The only interesting
part  of this demo is the question if it really was a girl that had created
this demo or not.  Nothing much to add really.  It's not worth a
download.«»
«»
«c5»The Human Body Is A Curious Contraption by Dr. Doom & Xeron«»«c2»
«»
Once  again  the  forces  of  Doom  and  Xeron  are  united to create a fun
production.   Some  people have probably noticed that the production wasn't
released under the IRIS label despite of the fact that also Xeron became an
IRIS  member  at  the party.  Anyway, both multitalents did the code, Xeron
did  the  music  and  Dr. Doom the gfx.  The demo starts off by displaying a
face  created by line vectors, and some text.  Next up is the credits part,
and  we also get to see some manipulated pictures and some effects.  We get
too  see  some  twisting  of  a  background while some weird text is added.
Everything is perfectly timed to the fast phase (energic) music.  Next is a
picture  where  we get to see a child holding his parent in his arms.  It's
revealed  in  an  interesting  way.  Then we get to see a cool vector object
displayed  over  this  picture,  with  a mirror effect in the right corner.
Afterwards  we get to see more text over a picture.  The cool thing is that
various  pieces  of  the  picture  is enlightened timed to the music.  Then
another  picture  in  the left of the screen appears, with a moving/zooming
effect.   Another  cool  effects pop up next, with a big scroller above it.
At  the  end,  we  get  to  see  the first effect again, with lots of small
mirrors  and  more text.  All in all, this is a funny production with quite
some  nice  effects synched to the fitting music.  The creators just show a
very small part of what they're capable of doing, and I hope they'll create
a  "serious"  production  again  next  year.  The demo only came 6th in the
compo.«»
«»
«c5»Step by step by Function«»«c2»
«»
This demo was made by a quite new scene group actually.  Not that this demo
was  their  first  though.   Anyway,  the code was delivered by El Higu and
Shape,  while the gfx was done by Chavez and Tempest, and sound was created
by  Tempest.   This  demo  offers  a lot of gfx actually, which is not very
usual nowadays.  First we get to see the logo Function with some background
effects,  followed by the credits.  Next up is a big Step by Step logo, and
quite   a  nice  zooming/changing  effect  in  blue/white  colours  appears
afterwards.   Another  effect  pops up next (looks like big blurred bobs or
something) and an unreadable scroller above it.  At least it was impossible
to  read  it at the bigscreen.  Then another effect in green with a picture
on  the  right  side of the screen appears, and afterwards more or less the
same   effect   in   pink   come   with   the  greetings.   The  blue/white
stretching/zooming  effect  appears  again  before  we  see a fullscreen end
picture.   All  in  all,  nothing  amazing stuff to see in this production.
Function  however has probably a bright future in the scene.  The demo came
5th in the compo.«»
«»
«c5»Retropical by Drifters«»«c2»
«»
Here's  a  demo presented by quite an old scener.  Well, at least I've seen
the female coder, Clary, at parties from the early 90s.  I think she's been
coding  for  10  years  or  so now.  Anyway, code wise this production isn't
anything.   But  as always with Drifters productions, we get to see lots of
funny  animations  and fitting music.  This demo wasn't any exception.  The
demo  was  quite  enjoyable,  it  has its moments of fun and very nice gfx.
Well done.  The demo actually came 4th in the compo.«»
«»
«c5»Glare by Mad Wizards«»«c2»
«»
Now  it's  time  to  review  the  more  serious  contributions  to the
demo compo.   Glare  is  a typical PPC-demo in the special Mawi-style.  Yes,
even  the  colour palettes  seems to be the same.  It always hard to explain
the  various  screens, as there are much background gfx and lots of effects
above  it.   It's  difficult  to see what's happening.  It starts of with a
fullscreen  mixpicture, followed by something which looks like a fullscreen
MAWI  logo, then we see some various lighteffects / glare and more over the
gfx.   Next  up  is  a rather nice and big Glare logo.  We also get too see
some  yellow  3d  objects  / bricks in various shapes, changing and moving.
Next  up  is some more gfx, before a big 3d object appears.  This effect is
followed  by  lots  of various 3d stuff, blurring/fading/lightning and more.
In  between  all  this  we  get the usual greetings.  The 3d mix continues,
before  we  get  the credits.  Kiero has done the code as usual, Rork, Podo
and  Azzaro  did the gfx and Prevent, Ubik & Mover did the 3d, while Raiden
delivered the music.  At the very end we get to see a few more nice effects
before  the  MAWI  sign  appears.   The  demo  offers a lot of these 3d mix
objects, and some are displayed by nice camera movements.  It's just that I
feel  I've  seen it all before in other MAWI productions.  In any case, the
demo came third.«»
«»
«c5»Multiverse by Loonies«»«c2»
«»
This demo is created by Psycho, which did the main code, but also Blueberry
participated it seems.  He also made the 4k intro as we remember.  The gfx,
including  the  3d, was made by Farfar, Laika, Maytz & Cheesy/TBC and music
by Booster.  The demo offers really a lot of nice 3D scenes, very clean code
and  fitting  synchronized  music.  The demo starts off by showing that the
demo  is  released  at  the  Breakpoint  2005  by  Loonies.   We see a
landscape,  and  an extreme zoom of a man.  Very good.  We then zoom out in
space,  and  see  some planets, earth being one of them.  We zoom more into
this  planet  and  down  to the landscape.  Then we see a nice city and the
credits  are  being shown.  Afterwards a cool TV/radio tower is sending out
signals,  and  we  hear the fitting sound.  We see more landscape and move,
some  very nice volcanoes and mountains are displayed.  It's interrupted by
the  greetings  part.   We get too see some more pictures of a city, robots
are  coming  and  one  is  carrying a woman.  Next up is some cool airplane
attacks  and  the retaliation fire at the ground.  Really great stuff.  At
the end we get to see some clouds and the name Multiverse appears.  This is
a really high quality demo.  Very good 3d stuff.  It ended up second in the
compo.«»
«»
«c5»Ocean machine by TBL«»«c2»
«»
The  Black  Lotus once again managed to win the demo competition.  The code
is mainly done by Kalms, but also Rubberduck participated.  Gfx was done by
Louie  and  Nichosen,  while the animation was made by Tudor.  Yolk did the
music.   The demo starts with a loading picture, and then we see some small
glare  /  lightning  or  something getting revealed, before it mixes with a
very nice picture of the face of a woman.  Her eyes open and the name Ocean
Machine  is  being  painted  over  the  pic.  Afterwards a heavy 3d routine
enters.   We  get  too  see  some very cool skyscrapers which are twisting.
Then  a 3d voxel effect appears.  Next up is a very stylish and atmospheric
routine.   We  get  to  see  a female turner (gymnastic) doing some aesthetic
moves,  in  front  of  a  very nice background.  Afterwards we get to see a
landscape  routine.   We move over a mountain covered with snow.  Then it's
more  3d voxel.  Next up some "frozen" greyish cubes get displayed.  We see
them  in  various  views,  before  some black cubes are hitting the screen.
Everything  is  moving.  Then the greetings are shown, and right afterwards
we  get  to see the credits.  At the end we see some more 3d voxel objects.
It's a tree on a mountain top.  This demo is really good.  It got some nice
gfx  and  sound,  and  good code as always.  Very atmospheric demo.  BUT...
both the modified moving gymnast and the tiny changed landscape routine was
also  shown in Silkcut.  The cube effect may look stylish, but is very easy
to  do.   And well, there even seem to be a bug as the greetings part was
cut  before  it  seemed to be finished.  The impressive 3d voxel don't always 
look that  good.  Nevertheless, the demo got this overall good feeling so
it managed to win.  Deserved or undeserved, it's a very good demo.  I like
it.  Amiga is still a wonderful machine!«»
«»
There's not much else to say about the Amiga productions really, you should
check them out yourself if you haven't seen them already.«»
«»
«e»
