ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
DANISH SCENE REPORT«»
«»
«c3»By Zerox of Gods«»
«»«c2»«as»
I've  written  various  scene-reports  for over a decade now, and for every
time  a new report has to be written, there are less groups to write about.
This  is  also  the  case  this  time.  The last two groups I've decided to
remove  are  Efreet  and  Haujobb,  even though they still have the members
capable  of  making  productions.   However,  none  of the groups have made
anything  since  2002.  I'll include them and all other groups which manage
to come up with any Amiga production in the future.«»
«»
I  also  have  to  mention that some people criticise me for only writing a
Norwegian  and  Danish scene-report.  If YOU really want a scene-report from
any other country, like for instance Sweden, Germany and Poland, then write
it yourself.  :-)«»
«»
«c4»DEPTH«»«c2»
«»
-  Depth  is  the  first  group  I consider somewhat active.  The group got
founded  back  in 1993 and most people know them because they took over the
EuroChart  from  Static  Bytes, and have impressed by releasing issue 28 to
43.   The latest issues were in cooperation with IRIS, which then took over
the  mag entirely.  Depth also have members in Finland, Norway and England.
They  are known to do some crazy things now and then.  The member Curt Cool
has  started an ambitious project to gather all scene-modules and composers
in a BIG archive by the way.  The latest release from Depth so far is their
intro  made  together with the Norwegian members and released at Breakpoint
2005.  Curt Cool also made several contributions in the music-compos at
BP.«»
«»
Homepage: «c3»www.depth.org«»
«c2»«»
Well-Known   Productions:    EuroChart,   CoolTunes,  Vi  Elsker  Darkhawk,
Kryptonite and Dansktoppen 8 Intro.«»
«»
Well-Known  Members:  Bucko, Curt Cool, Cytron, Folcka, Gizmoduck, Presence
and Quedax.«»
«»
«c4»IRIS«»
«»«c2»
- This is one of the oldest groups in the scene today. They have been very
active  the  latest  years  and  released  many  quality productions.  IRIS
members  usually  also  attend many parties, and arranged the Scene Meeting
themselves.   In addition to the Danish members, they have a few members in
countries  such as Great Britain, Poland and USA.  They have taken over the
EuroChart  from Depth, and been a coop partner in the now dead mag D.I.S.C.
IRIS  got  to be one of the leading Danish crews and can also be considered
to  be  a good group in international standard.  The latest releases, before
this  issue  of  the  EuroChart  that  is, was the 4k-intro Evil, which got
released  at  the  Breakpoint  2005.   Some  members  also  released  other
productions  there,  but not under the IRIS label.  At the TRSAC party 2005
IRIS  released  a small intro called HAM-6 KEFRATRAZ BARS, and Dr.Doom also
released a 4k intro called Klamp (which I can't find anywhere though).«»
«»
Homepage:  «c3»www.irishq.dk («c1»not updated for about a year, sad to say. Hope to get 
a new one up "soon" - ED)«»
«c2»«»
Well-Known   Productions:    Kilkenny,   Quest,  Swift,  Brutal,  Exposure,
EuroChart,  Poem,  I-Surf,  Light,  Plan B, Noise From Heaven, The Puppets,
Abecedarian and Light II.«»
«»
Well-Known   Members:    Adonis,  Darkhawk,  Dr. Doom,  Nutman,  Ransom  and
TrickTrax.«»
«»
«c4»LOONIES«»«c2»
«»
-  This  was  a  group  which  got  founded over ten years ago, and now has
achieved  to  become  one of the very best groups of the scene.  Especially
the  latest demos and intros and a certain musicdisk have gotten attention.
They  are  known  to  have  some  weird-style  or deal with themes in their
productions, and are also present at most parties.  I think all members are
from  Denmark.  They have won competitions at most of the parties they have
contributed.   At  the Breakpoint 2005 party they won the intro competition
with  their  4k  intro  Noxie,  and came second with their demo Multiverse.
Apart  from  that, they're also doing good with their PC productions.  Just
check out their intro from the Assembly 2005 party. The latest release
from Loonies is their 4k intro called Faar K2, released at TRSAC 2005.«»
«»
Homepage:  «c3»www.loonies.dk«»
«c2»«»
Well-Known    Productions:     Goatraince,   Valhalla,   Cybercinematastic,
Impossible,  SuperDrug, The Morning Trip, At The Movies, Hotstyle Takeover,
The Castle, Dark Rain, Arla, Faar K, Slap Yourself Silly and Ikanim.«»
«»
Well-Known Members:  Bifrost, BlueBerry, Farfar, Laika and Psycho.«»
«»
«e»
