ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
THE CORRECT WAY OF SPELLING 'EUROCHART'«»
«»
«c3»By Darkhawk of IRIS«»
«»«c2»«as»
Is this really needed? Another article telling a select few people such as 
Magic/Nah-Kolor that the Eurochart has always been spelled without an 's' behind 
it?«»
«»
Well, it turns out that this is far from the only confusing aspect about the 
official EuroChart. Did you notice this? Yes, very perceptive of you. People 
spell the EC both as 'Eurochart' and 'EuroChart'. Ooh, the pain and confusion! 
What is the correct way of spelling it you ask? Well, both are probably 
acceptable, I think the old Eurochart staff have consequently spelled it without 
a capital 'c', and so have I, for some time. Then at one point, I began thinking 
about this, and decided that EuroChart suited my fancy or whim at that time 
better, and began writing it like this. Others caught on to it (clever move), but 
now I must let down those people who caught on to it by ashamedly admitting that 
I am very indecisive as to what solution is the best one. For some time I 
thought 'EuroChart' was more aesthetically pleasing than 'Eurochart', but now, 
caught up by time and old convention again, I am actually not that certain 
anymore. Doesn't 'EuroChart' look too massive, condensed as it is? On the other 
hand, 'Eurochart' sounds weaker, without the capital 'c' that should probably be 
there (ok, it shouldn't, since this is not the Euro Chart, but the EuroChart). 
Uff, I don't know about this.«» 
«»
Maybe we should have a poll about the spelling, seeing as how indecisive I am. I 
will have to ponder this for a while, maybe some years, while the confusion 
mounts.«»
«»
Until then, I would just like to inform you that both ways of spelling are 
acceptable for now, but you don't want to be laughed at, if the one way of 
writing it wins over the other, and you backed the wrong horse, so think 
carefully. As for myself, having written the EC both ways, also in this 
magazine, I am at least sure to get it right now and then.«»
«»
PS: This is my attempt at a filler. Did it work? I think it is more of a filler 
than Zerox's filler, to be honest (not that this is a competition, not at all!). 
«»
«e»