ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
Deviance Demo 

- the story so far«»
«»
«c3»By Ghandy of Deviance, Moods Plateau & Scarab«»
«»«as»«c2»
At the end of August 2005, Int3rpol and some other people went to Cologne in order
to visit the Evoke demoparty. At that time especially Int3rpol didn't have much
in common with the demoscene at all. Deviance, you might ask yourself? Yes, it's the
crew which is normally known for spreading high quality iso cracks from recent game
titles. But at Evoke things became different. Just for the fun of it he compiled and
released an old crackintro for the PC 64k competition. When the intro started, the party
visitors became interested because many of them previously heard of this group - so they
expected something stunning. And while the party organizers had huge problems to exit the
endless looping intro, most of the people being present at Evoke had already become
a bit disappointed. A reused crackintro, that's all? It was. But it was also exactly the
moment when the idea to build up a legal demo section of Deviance was born. Why not assemble
some individuals who could present a true eyecatcher under this brand instead of a fun
production, Int3rpol asked himself.«»
«»
Early December. I'm at home, trying to fix some serious problems with the graphics card
of my f*cking PC. My phone rings. First I mistake him for someone else and then I
recognize that I don't know the person who tried to persuade me. "Here's Interpol of
Deviance. Why don't you set up a demo related bbs?", he asked me. I had a better idea.
One hour later Berlins' last active bulletin board system "Uphold The Law", maintained
by Ramses of Scarab became the German headquarter of this crew. In the meantime many other people joined this brand new
crew.«»
«»
The well-known oldschooler Sphinx of Danish Gold took over the steering wheel as second leader.
Also, the famous Ascii & graphics artist H20 had teamed up. Barock of ex-The Silents, well-known
for his brilliant 2d artworks & Worldcharts agreed to follow this path. Trigger, Axl and
AlphaOne were hired as coders. Maybe the one or other reader does recognize some trainers for
Amiga games coded by Alpha One. Henning Ludvigsen, better known as Bridgeclaw of Gods agreed to help us with 2d graphics. Also, the former Devotion editor, Ascii artist and musician Darkus teamed up. For Ascii & Ansi needs, Nerv, F0st and Barium decided to support us. The other 2d graphics will be executed by Minz, who's painting on Atari & PC. Raist & Degrysin will do 3d
objects or fullscreen pictures in case we need some. The former Amiga musician Cyborg Jeff came
on board, like I did, in the beginning of December. The other trackers in Dev Demo are Modplug
and Keito. Not to forget our dear cheerleaders Turtle of Danish Gold and Neger Kalle, better
known as Lincoln. Go and dance a bit for us, girls, erm... boys! ;-)«»
«»
Building up the demo section of such a well-known, illegal group is not an easy task. As Deviance is so splendid, a lot of people will have extremely high expectations. And
whatever we will release at TuM or anywhere else, it will be hard to please you. Also,
compared to the cracking Scene, things tend to work totally different here in the
demoscene. Intros & demos are in most cases the result of good teamwork. If the leader
of such a division would try to perform like a dictator, this would surely end up with the complete demotivation of each single member. But luckily Int3rpol never tried to
act in such a way.«»
«»
Don't be surprised if you'll eventually have to wait longer for our first production than
expected. Better no output than a bad production that hits the streets too
quickly.«»
«»
However, we will do our best in order to cast a spell on you and enchant you. Just keep
an eye or two out for us.«»
«»
«e»