ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
EDITORIAL«»
«»
«c3»By Darkhawk of IRIS«»
«c2»«as»«»
It took a long time coming - but here it is!«»
«»
Welcome to the 48th issue of the biggest, longest running chartmag of 
the Amiga scene. With this issue we bring out versions for 6 different 
platforms, making this the first real cross-platform mag ever. We aim 
to bring out our mag for as many platforms as possible, and we welcome 
article support from all scenes, but the chart part is still Amiga
only.«»
«»
It's been 2 years and 2 months since the last issue of this mag. A 
lot should have happened in the meantime - we certainly took our sweet 
time in re-appearing. What has happened? Has the Amiga scene died? 
Didn't we promise a C64 version of the mag? And lastly: Did Darkhawk finally get 
a real job? The answers to these questions are no, yes and NO 
respectively..«»
«»
The Amiga scene is not dead - nor is it close to. After a period of 
becoming smaller, it's size and level of activity has now remained 
constant for roughly 3-4 years, and there seems to be no end in sight. 
Those who wanted to leave the Amiga have done so by now, what is left 
are the same old usual suspects - but these suspects are determined and 
skilled. At least a lot of them are. We all know each other and see 
each other at parties such as the upcoming Breakpoint. We will produce 
a respectable amount of Amiga release, some of a very high quality, 
some crap. And we will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. 
Seen positively, we can't be killed. Seen negatively, we are all 
rather inbred and distrustful of other scenes. Let's try to shake up 
that last thing - with the release of the EC for as many platforms as 
possible, we hope to attract a general level of interest in the EC, 
and we welcome articles from all scenes. Maybe the EC can be a sort of 
bridge not only between the PPC and 68k Amigas, but also between the 
Amiga, PC and C64 scenes. Whether this happens or not is up to the 
sceners, but we can dream.«»
«»
We DID promise a C64 version of this mag.. Kinda'. At least we hinted 
to it, but in the end, we did not have time to finish it up - or so 
we thought. Turned out we would have had plenty of time, but that was 
never apparent, as the release of the EC was always 'just a few days 
to go' - we thought. As a result a lot in this mag speaks of the 
C64 version of the EC. There are even screenshots. Isn't that 
tantalizing? But sadly, it was not to be. However, for issue 49 we 
think it is pretty safe to guarantee you a C64 EC. Until then, you 
must make do with one of the other versions.«»
«»
And of course, I still have no job. I sacrificed it all in order to work 
full-time on the Eurochart. At least this is the official explanation 
that I am going with, eheh..«»
«c4»«»
THANK YOU«»
«c2»«»
On a more serious note, there has been a lot of work put into this 
issue of the EC48. I think it is pretty safe to say that between 
the articles, votes, homepage, database, articles, graphics, music
 and code, more man-hours have been put into this issue than has been 
put into any scenish release yet. We did NOT spend 2 years idling 
really (at least not all 2 years.. There were some hours of activity 
here and there too). A lot of people have done a great and fantastic 
job for the EC (though of course even more people have let us down
 with empty promises, but that's how it is, no hard feelings.. At 
least not if I get a beer from each of you at BreakPoint). You can 
see hopefully complete credits in the Credits article, but here, 
in the editorial, I still wish to personally say thank you to 3 
persons from the EC Team without which the EC could never have been 
what it is (or been at all, heh).«»
«»
«c3»Ransom of IRIS. «c2»His last two years have been spent recompiling and 
bug-fixing the new EC engine. He hasn't exactly been bursting with 
joy during this time, but he survived and he finished the job 
throughout many hardships. This deserves recognition. Ransom also 
deserves a break from the scene now. A break he can spend finishing 
his critically drawn-out finishing project at his study.«»
«»
«c3»Dr. Doom of IRIS. «c2»Although a very chaotic and unreliable being who is
notoriously difficult to control (even for an organizer), I nevertheless 
managed to wring a lot of gfx out of him for this issue. Not the fastest 
painter on the block, he is in my humble and totally subjective opinion 
one of the best, if not THE best graphician left to the Amiga scene. 
His work for this issue is nothing short of outstanding and I am very 
proud to have him at my side (at times.. Most of the time I am incredibly 
frustrated at having to hand out verbal threats daily to get him to work, 
but hey..).«»
«»
«c3»Zerox of Gods. «c2»The hardworking co-editor of this issue deserves an extra, 
special mention. Inside and outside of the scene, Frode is always 
dependable, always ready to help out. We have a great new engine, 
fantastic gfx - but without Frode, we would not have much diversified 
article content - without him, the EC would have looked rather bland 
in regards to both the number of articles and the news-based articles in 
general. For 14 years now we have helped each other out in our various mag 
projects across the scene, and he has never let me down. For that, he 
deserves at least one of the beers I promised him.«»
«»
Enough with all the teary-eyed thank you for now.«»
«c4»«»
YADDA YADDA - GET TO THE GOOD STUFF«»
«c2»«»
Editorials are a strange breed - usually the least interesting article 
in the mag, megalomaniacal editors nevertheless tend to write a lot of 
uninteresting hype about the mag in the editorial. Other editors place 
a lot of value in the editorial. It needs to be strong, interesting, 
concise, to the point, and so on. I spent nearly one year thinking 
about what I should write here (yes, this is a slight exaggeration), 
but in the end, thinking that writing this editorial after all this 
hard work would be a momentous event, it still came as a surprise when 
the time came. And it does not feel very momentous at all. In fact I 
am quite at a loss for words now. So, in all fairness there's no need 
to make this any longer than it has to be. We have done what we could,
and in many ways, this is a very momentous release indeed. However, 
now it is in your hands. Read through it, look at the charts, hear the 
music, see the graphics, think your thoughts, and most of all: Enjoy it.«»
«e»