ecnew.font,8
«»
«c1»«ac»
Eurochart in my Ass«»
«c3»«»
By Browallia of Nukleus«»
«c2»«»«as»
Actually, the true title of this article is "a Writer's Dilemma", but I 
wanted your deepest attention to read this. And this trick was a success 
or? Why change the title? Well, that is a part of what this article is 
about. The freedom to write. And not being afraid of doing it.«» 
«»
Take a deep breath.«»
«c4»«» 
SIGNING WITH MR. D«» 
«c2»«»
Writing articles for bringing sparkling thoughts to the public may be a 
gift from God. For me, it has turned out to be a dangerous dependency and 
rhetorical questions were forming a queue on the tip of the tongue:  
Who is helping me going through this? Where is my good little fairy? Who 
is my God? This makes me wonder, if my God lives three stairs below in a 
diabolic hot basement and titulates himself mr. D?«»
«»
How could I else explain my *evil actions*? My arrogant nonchalance 
wasn't there when I was born. I'm getting red and sweaty by merely 
thinking of this. I better open my heart and confess everything before 
the blood pressure becomes too high. Better an open heart than an 
exploded one, so to say.«»
«»
I am the owner of two active diskmags («c1»You are the "owner" of one 
diskmag, and co-owner of a chartmag without articles. Megalomania sets in 
early for you - ED). «c2»And the uncomfortable saga starts right here. 
I wasn't aware of those complications when I signed this doomed contract 
with mr. D.«»
«c4»«»
COMPLICATIONS - EGOCENTRIC VIEW«»
«c2»«»
Assume I write something in 'Cows n Snakefights' which hurt your  
feelings or you just feel disgusted. Two days later I beg you to  
submit your vote in 'Versus'. Are you going to support then? Well I 
doubt you would. Why? Yes why is it like that?«»
«»
Perhaps you had voted for me or Nukleus, and instead of showing you a 
friendly side back, I write that your intro suxx. I'm sure you  
won't appreciate that. I would not jump with joy myself. But why is 
Browallia like this? Why can't he just make peace with the scene? Joining 
hands and sing the boing-song?«»
«»
Well, he can't. And he doesn't want it this way. Browallia doesn't 
believe such articles are interesting to read. Furthermore, he must 
convince the rest of the scene that ass-licking articles are not 
entertaining, nor good in the scene culture. The level of excitement is 
zero.«»
«c4»«» 
THE DILEMMA«» 
«c2»«»
I'm aware about how most people react when writing a subjective point  
of view about someone else. He will quit supporting and the little  
friendship built up is gone. So I feel uncomfortable because I know  
that some small adjustments in my writing style may be the difference  
in keeping a good relation. And this thought is absurd.«»
«»
Unfortunately I'm not working in that way. The freedom of writing is of  
highest importance of me. I show no fear in writing, and I don't fear  
to write my opinion.«»
«c4»«»
THE CONCRETE EXAMPLE«»
«c2»«»
Here is a concrete example of what I am writing about. 
I am excited to see how Eurochart 48 will look like. How much ass-licking 
is it this time between the lines? How much joining all Amiga-hands can I 
read about this time? I might be wrong, but I doubt it. With those words 
I give you one opinion. I may be hated for those words. But objectivity 
in EC... - up in my ass.«»
«»
Still, this doesn't make me stop support them. There are talents in 
Eurochart-crew. And I love them. Love the art they can write. Love my 
enemies. And I respect them, for the things what they believe in. This my 
friend, is what I'm writing about in this article. To keep on supporting. 
As you might have seen, I have no problems with it. And after this 
'concrete example' I just expect others to do the same. You should never 
stop supporting because someone dares to write his true opinion. That is 
the wrong, wrong and wrong reason! For me, I see this as a game. And you 
will loose when you stop supporting me.«»
«c4»«»
HARD TO HIDE FEELINGS«»
«c2»«»
Now, everything sounds quite good and Browallia is showing his nose 
everywhere and dares to show his opinion without mercy. He is MR. 
Independent himself! The truth is that it is very hard, and I fight with 
this problem every time I write («c1»you're managing quite well - ED). 
«c2»Let's take the example with giving votes to your group. If people like 
our diskmags and vote for us, even Browallia would hesitate twice before 
he writes something nasty back. Huh, tricky? The problems with the votes 
this time in Versus was that I expected we would get some votes. Before 
calculating the votes, I told a groupmember to delete the header-info of 
every single vote sheet. As a consequence, I didn't have a clue about who 
has voted for me or my group.«»
«»
Quite complicated or? But for me the price is worth it for being 
objective in my subjective mind.«»
«»
«»
«c4»«»
MY GOAL«»
«c2»«»
What is my gain? It's not about being popular or not in the scene.  
Hell no! No I care very little about such things. I will walk over 
corpses and go through fire for making you understand that my art of 
writing is not going to change. I will continue to write whatever. I will 
keep the freedom. Or shall I say I will 'dare' to keep the freedom?  
I will write that *you* suck, when I don't like you. But I would like to 
stay in touch with *you*, hear *your* opinion, get *you'r* articles and 
get *your* vote.«»
«» 
Now you understand me.«»
«» 
Only dead fish swim with the stream.«»
«»
«e»