ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
Eurochart.dk - the new Amiga place to be«»
«»
«c3»By Darkhawk of IRIS«»
«»«as»«c2»
In May 2005 IRIS launched a new site, in preparation for the release of this magazine. The site was 
intended to be the official online component of the Eurochart. As the Eurochart is still a real 
diskmag, meaning a scenish production that you have to load in order to view it, as opposed to 
running it in your browser, the Eurochart site offers something different and complementary to the 
actual mag.«» 
«»
If you haven't yet visited «c4»www.eurochart.dk«c2», you haven't voted in the new Eurochart for instance, 
and you are missing out on a lot of good stuff. In order for us to make voting as easy as possible for 
people, we needed to automate it a lot more than before, as well as implementing simple pull down 
voting. In order to accomplish this, we would need a list of all releases and sceners that could be 
voted for, doing our utmost not to miss anything. Doing this for all the scenish releases ever done 
on Amiga was not feasible with the limited manpower we had. At the same time, it was clear that 
the majority of voters wanted to be able to vote on new actual stuff, as well as sceners that had not 
quit the Amiga 10 years ago. Ok, while I do not share that view personally, I do understand it, and 
want to help stimulate the actual scene. Naturally, the fact that we would have to list all releases and 
sceners ever active on the Amiga from 1986 and up till' now otherwise, might also have helped this 
decision along.«»
«»
2002 was arbitrarily decided to be the oldest year included, and from there we build up a quite 
complete list of releases ever. Zerox did that huge bit of work. Afterwards I went through all these 
releases, noting complete credits as well as which group(s) made it. Then, with some very welcome 
help from Kempy, I added this info to the EC database that formed the core of eurochart.dk. At the 
same time, all productions, as well as videos of them when able, were added to the relevant sections 
in the database, so that all Amiga scene releases from 2002 and onwards could be downloaded. 
At that point, the site was almost ready to go live, apart from lacking the informational texts about 
what the Eurochart was, etc. That was the least work intensive part of all though. Hexagon did a lot 
of work too, as he made all the webcoding and design on the site, as well as providing free high-
speed hosting from his own webserver.«» 
«»
Thus, after months of hard work, the pieces came together in May, and we went public with our big, 
searchable, votable EC database. We are actually very proud of this site, and hope it will see a lot of 
visitors and use. During the first 3 days of being online, we received over a 100 votes, totally 
justifying our work and proving that we had made the right decision in doing it like
this.«»
«»
Things are not perfect however, as I am currently the only one to update the site with new releases, 
and I have almost no time for this, especially not when also doing the actual Eurochart. Also, the 
tools that need to be coded in order to add new productions via a snappy GUI are not finished yet, 
and before that happens, you can't actually update the database anymore. Thus, I think the latest big 
update to the site was in late May/early July. This is acceptable for now, but after the release of this 
magazine, we need to update it, so people can vote on the new stuff that has been released. In 
addition to that, in order to be eligible for being voted on, you need to have done some work in a 
production. If you have only released, say, a tune at a party, you will not get listed. Clearly, it would 
be impossible for us to determine who was an Amiga musician, and how many released what tunes 
during the last 4 years. The same applies in regards to graphics. A production is a very concrete, 
very immediate thing; deciding that it was our only basis was easy, as well as extremely practical. 
Also, if you consider yourself an active Amiga scener, we think it is only fair that you can first 
become votable when you have actually contributed something to a production. I don’t think the 
Amiga scene is in such a sorry state that you couldn't be a part of that if you really tried. For 
instance, you could support the Eurochart with something, or send tunes to a chippack, heck, you 
could even do something in a demomaker and release it (quite some people do
that).«»
«»
Anyway, in regards to the future of this, we would very, very much like to add 
releases/sceners/groups from before 2002. Not to be voted on, but simply to build up, in time, a 
complete database in regards to the Amiga scene, with all the names, releases and data we can cram 
in (screenshots too, they should get implemented around the release of this mag. I hope). There’s no 
way in hell however, that I am going to be able to do more of that work and still maintain my 
sanity. So, if you think this project is worth it, don't hesitate to get in touch with us for collecting 
data/productions to be added to the database. We will probably start out slowly, one person collects 
the data for one year (i.e. 2001), and we go downwards from there. Eventually, we could have a 
complete searchable and downloadable database with screenshots of every production and a logo 
for every group, if not sceners. That however is still a long, long ways
off.«»
«»
Visit our site, go through the database, look at its possibilities, check out the voting area, leave 
feedback in our shoutbox, and consider helping us out in this endeavour. It would be very much 
appreciated!«»
«»
«e»