ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
Evoke 2005 - the red boinged side of a partyreport«»
«»
«c3»By Ghandy of Scarab, Moods Plateau and Deviance«»
«c2»«»«as»
At this years Evoke I took my hardware with me for the very first time ever.
Normally I prefer to let my computer stay at home. You know, our miggys are old 
and rusty and therefore I normally have fears that something worse could happen
while the party takes place. But not this year. D!rt!e of Moods Plateau
helped me to install the external memory into my A4000 so that I can watch all
the damn ram-consuming beauties that I've missed so far.«»
«»
Luckily the other Moods Plateau members were already present when I rushed in.
The hall, called Vulkanhalle (vulcan hall) is an extreme modern building with an
architecture that reminds one of an old shop floor. You could almost hear
the noise of those machines, that probably served their duty many years ago. 
Big, dirty machines that build something. A lot of dust everywhere, emissions 
and so on. But that's only my own personal imagination. There hasn't been any 
factory inside as far as I heard.«»
«»
In contrary the hall looks very fresh and young, having been built not long ago. 
Anyway, my Amiga and my loudspeakers were set up quickly. After I destroyed my 
internal diskdrive because I let it fall down to the floor, we tested the 
computer by running demos like the black flowered "Ocean Machine", "Silkcut", 
"Magia". Loadies' "Finnmark" plus a lot of other Ephidrena stuff, Up Roughs nice 
& underrated "April in Paris", Scarabs' "Lvis & Tribute", the JP intro from 
Tulou, the mag itself and many, many other productions. It was still silent 
inside the partyhall. Only a few tables were already occupied. So when I turned 
my speakers to the maximum, it caused a stir. Many PC freaks stopped short and 
began to ask us with how many gigaherz this strange machine was powered with. My 
Amiga isn't so easy to discern as its front is paint brushed in black & white. 
Our answer was always the same. We could not deny ourselves and simply had to 
set a fat smile on our faces. "This demo runs with only 50mhz, 2megs chip & 96mb 
fastmem and it doesn't abuse the hardware of any gfx card!" Everybody was 
greatly surprised and asked us to show them more of that stuff.«»
«»
Dodge of Moods Plateau, formerly known as Doc Mike had set up a game station. An
old A500 with a simple monitor and some freaky joysticks in very flashy colours.
We invited everybody to play some classical games with us. Good old "No Name" of
Haujobb came straight from England where he's living & working now. He was a 
good combatant in International Karate. Many others also followed our invitation 
to play games, which some of them being older than the party visitors itself. 
Okay, I exaggerate a bit now, I must confess.«»
«»
«c4»The beer bet!«»«c2»
«»
StingRay and Psycreator had a bet. In case StingRay would get JP running without
any problems on Psys' Amiga, he could drink as much of his beer as he wanted to.
It took him a few minutes and then he could relax and booze at the expense of
Psycreator. That was extremely funny to watch. But Psy didn't take it
hard.«»
«»
Bobic, the webmaster of Back to the Roots.org came along and told us a lot about
his ambitious new project 4Sceners.de. During the afternoon the hall went 
crowded, slowly but surely. The German graphician Da Freak and his iMac joined 
our table, aswell as the coder & musician Doc K. from the Moods posse. Xenusion 
of Plastic and Dc Clark of Scarab were also sitting together with us. Later in 
the afternoon SelectAnovel joined us after surviving an adventuresome trip with 
a fucking old car down from northern Germany.«»
«»
All in all there was an impressive amount of Amiga hardware present at Evoke 
this year. But that wasn't all. Later we were able to spot a few Atari freaks. 
Lotek Style and Cyclone of X-Troll, the maineditor of the great Alive diskmag 
were present, too. Don't mix him up with the famous graphician Cyclone of Abyss, 
that's a complete different person! Btw.: All issues of Alive can be completely 
read online at http://alive.atari.org/alive.html in case you don't want to 
install Steem or another Atari emulator. Lotek also gave many Pc freaks the 
chance to watch Atari Falcon and ST demos. Very nice stuff we were able to see 
there! But Evoke was lacking C64's and other alternative computer platforms. 
There were a few breadbox freaks and also some Dreamcast stickers could be seen 
on the walls around us, but it was a vanishing minority.«»
«»
«»
«c4»Big (French) brothers are watching you!«»«c2»
«»
The whole event was streamed live to the internet by the team of demoscene.tv!
Upstairs you could see the tables of the organizers and also the cameras, which 
didn't miss anything. On some monitors the live stream was running in a real
good quality. The team members of the French demoscene.tv could often be seen 
running around, doing video interviews, watching out for good motifs, etc.
etc.«»
«»
But that wasn't all by far. A lot of journalists were running around. Technical
writers of the Kölner Stadtanzeiger, a local papermag from Cologne were doing 
some interviews with party guests, too.«»
«»
«c4»Sceen#1 released!«»«c2»
«»
Monroe and a friend of him came from Hamburg in order to present the very first 
issue of the scenerelated papermag SCEEN at Saturday. Sometime during Saturday 
morning a van arrived and then we had to transport all those f*cking weighty 
issues from the van to the entrance area by hand, directly to the point where 
they were to be sold from. Some visitors called this first official issue of 
Sceen the best production of the party, in comparison with any of those prods, 
which were shown at the big screen. In fact, Sceen makes an extremely 
professional impression. Monroe aka Alexander Scholz is earning his
pieces of bread by working as a layouter for the Falke Verlag. That's the 
publishing company that had previously publicised the German "Amiga plus" 
journal. Layout and content of Sceen can honestly be called eminent. Let's cross 
our fingers that they'll find enough regular subscribers for their journal. Rush 
to http://sceen.org/ please and order your copy!«»
«»
«c4»Party is in & outside!«»«c2»
«»
As the hall wasn't surrounded by a lawn, things like a campfire were not an
option. Many party visitors were outside, drank loads of alcohol and naturally 
didn't keep calm. But as the partyplace was inside of an industrial complex, 
nobody did mind. The assistants from the advertising agencies or fashion 
companies around were not around anymore. So nobody had a problem with boozing, 
vomitting or yelling sceners. At the stage the group Ultrasound was playing 
their arses off! What a fucking great show this was. They played covers of old 
pc demotunes in an awesome quality. The true highlight of this concert was the 
rapping contest between Jenio and Okkie. The audience cried for more and more 
additions until suddenly they didn't know what to play and began to repeat some 
of their songs.«»
«»
«c4»Amiga compos?«»«c2»
«»
No, not in the year 2005. There has only been the wild compo for alternative
platforms. But on the other hand, there was only one extremely small Amiga
intro that was given to the orga team for the competition. Otherwise Tobi
aka XXX of Haujobb has once again announced last week when he was visiting 
Munich that they will do an Amiga compo if they will receive at least three 
demos! I've suggested Pandur to allow contributions via email, that would 
enhance the chance to see a lot more Amiga prods there. But to sum it up, the 
average quality of the entries was mostly good. I'd like to point out the 
wilddemo "Freilandeier" from 5711, the whole combined Ascii & Ansi competition, 
Kaki Arts' pc 64k intro "Rastro", the pc demo "perfect love" by lkcc and 
plastics' "Final Audition". I've never seen such an amount of price money at any 
other party before, that was really amazing!«»
«»
«c4»This is not the end, dear friend!«»«c2»
«»
To sum it up: Evoke 2005 was a great experience! The orgas were more than polite
and friendly. The party people knew how to act without having fears that they 
could get thrown out. Everybody who was present was involved or at least 
interested in the demoscene, gamers could not be seen anywhere! The visitors 
came from all over Europe. The person with the longest trip was a musician from 
Israel. He took the opportunity to celebrate the fact that he had survived three 
years of serving his military service in the hardest army of the world!«»
«»
A lot of oldskoolers were present aswell: Irata, Vigo, Ayatollah, Alfred & 
Carnivore, Brainwalker, Chaos, Knackosoft, Kb, Steeler, Scamp, Warhead, Maz, 
Cool Cat, Autopsy, Zaner, Clary, Ps, Franky, Paragon, Eviljoker, H2o, Santa, 
Streettuff, Eviljoker, Ras, Unlock, Timelord, and, and, end!«»
«»
Cu next year during Summer in Cologne! Don't forget to bring your demo & Amiga 
with you! ;-)«»
«»
Photos by «c3»http://slengpung.com «c2»- thanks!«»
«»
«e»