ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
GHANDY AND POLISH DISKMAGS«»
«»
«c3»By Binger and KAM_«»
«»«as»«c2» 
Hello Ghandy!«»
«» 
This article, which has the form of an open letter, is the result of you being 
full of emotions concerning the Excess #9 review in the thirteenth issue of 
Jurassic Pack. In normal conditions I would probably not even care about your 
words, but I'm so starved to read any Excess review, that I become very 
sensitive on every mention about that diskmag. The sad thing is that from the 
last Excess issue to this moment there was no polish magazine released and only 
a very small quantity of foreign mags. Therefore I would really like to thank 
you for the few nice words about my job, but instead of enjoying the 
compliments, I have to reply to your big reproach, which refers to the language 
of the articles in Excess.«»
«» 
You might be surprised why I'm replying in the diskmag of your competitor. There 
are two quite important reasons. Firstly my amicable translator works here 
(translator, Yeah right ;] KAM_), secondly there are no warranties that another 
JP issue will be released... Sad but true. :(«»
«»
For a hot start I got two messages for you. Unfortunately they can be both bad 
or good simultaneously, it depends on the point of view. Your complex about the 
polish demoscene will soon vanish because there is no such thing as a polish 
Amiga scene anymore. It fell like a paper house. The second message is, that you 
don't have to be angry anymore, because the diskmag idea has also fallen in 
Poland. Practically there are no active Amiga sceners in our country, you will 
only find a few exceptions (for example, I'm not making diskmags anymore, 
because there are no people willing to help doing such projects! :[).«»
«»
But I see, Ghandy, that you have some kind of obsession about polish mags. On 
one hand I understand it, but on the other I CAN'T understand you, because for 
God's sake!, it is not the first time that someone is explaining why there is 
such a strong tradition for making magazines in our national language!«»
«» 
Ghandy, we are not making mags in English because practically no one is writing 
articles in that language here and it is very hard to find people willing to 
translate texts from polish to English, even I myself can't speak in that 
language. That's all. I NEVER learned English in the school (let's overlook my 
dramatic break from education - health problems), like also the majority of the 
old-gold polish demoscene.«»
«»
In the past there was no need to speak foreign languages in that part of the 
world. In fact, we have been behind the iron curtain, almost under the soviet 
occupation...«»
«»
And even when English was theoretically in the lesson plan, it wasn't treated 
seriously. In fact not many people were willing to learn any foreign language in 
the school, not just English, but Russian too. Let's say it once again: not so 
many years ago knowledge of languages wasn't really useful to the common man, 
because our country was in deep international isolation. So, in the beginning of 
the polish scene, releasing diskmags in English-only would be exactly as 
senseless as making mags in polish only in your opinion. :)«»
«»
Of course you can say, that contact with computers and the Internet requires the 
possession of a very basic vocabulary at the least. But Ghandy, reading manuals 
and web pages is something else entirely than writing articles!«»
«» 
But time is running and many things changed in our country. Today the new 
generations of Poles don't have any problems with languages, people know how 
important they are in the world of today. Borders are opened, you can go 
anywhere you like, there is Internet, etc. But unfortunately, young people don’t 
care about the demoscene! There is a different world, different ideas, on one 
hand the life is harder now, but it's seducing us with many cheap conceptions, 
with simple, primitive entertainment. The old ideas aren't suitable for the new 
world!«»
«»
Don't worry, Ghandy, young Poles are educated in language, but I think that is a 
reason for European Union to be happy, because Western Europe is dying out 
(well, now the whole continent is quite superfluous) and I'm sure that the old, 
prosperous EU countries will be happy to accept immigrants rather from generic 
Europe lands, than from outside of the continent.«»
«»
Yes, well, maybe it is a politically faulty detail, which is pushing away 
certain problems of the times, but it is not solving it.«»
«»
You wrote: "(...) But if it would not, I would never expel the rest of the  
Scene outside our frontiers."  That's ridiculous! I hope, that you finally 
managed to understand that making diskmags in polish only is not a result of us 
being conceited. It's the fucking grey reality and our national mentality, 
taking up only those things, which are directly connected to us. :) And it also 
has to do with some language complexes towards western scene. :) Believe me, it 
would be really great to make two versions of Excess, but it's not!«»
«»
Quote: "Can't you use crappy modules, an engine that crashes and ugly panels? 
Only for us non-poles, so that we could have the impression that we don't miss 
anything?". Of course we can't take your words seriously; you wrote that just to 
express yourself. :) But I felt a bit strange though. Because my problem, 
Ghandy, is my deep aversion to diskmags with shitty graphics and slapdash-made 
{it's ugly, I know...} code. I'm sick of diskmags that are difficult to run, 
slow on 68k Amigas and that are time-consuming to configure.«»
«»
While coding Excess, I wanted to show that ANYONE can make an easy-to-use, fast 
and clean diskmag engine! You just have to want it.«»
«» 
Maybe I'm naive, but some time ago I wanted to save the idea of disk magazines, 
which are my favourite scene productions, because they were beginning to fall. 
Especially the quality of the code and graphics was dramatically decreasing. For 
God's sake, if magazines are about articles only, why should we fuck ourselves 
with making them, gathering the graphics and music and writing the code. We can 
send articles as archives, for example, via e-mail or ftp servers, web pages... 
Can't we?«»
«»
Oh, well, I wrote a lot of articles for Excess about the problems of diskmags 
and their role in a contemporary world. Now I can only regret that you, and the 
whole non-polish scene can't read those articles. But believe me, they
aren't optimistic... :(«»
«»
Regards - «c3»Binger02.2005binger@o2.pl«»
«c1»«»
Note from KAM_: «c2»Hello everybody. I would like to supplement Binger's article and 
the whole topic a bit. There is young but ambitious Amiga/Pegasos group in 
Poland called Lazy Minds. They want to make their debut, which will be a new 
diskmag - "Seven Days". When you're reading this, the magazine has been released 
or will be soon. Now we have the 20th February and about 95% of the work is done 
already («c1»seems like work wasn't "quite" finished at that point. I know
how it is.. - ED). «c2»All of 
the 7d staff members are Poles, and all articles are written in polish. After 
reading Binger's text you know why - the lingual barrier. But I think that 
making a magazine in polish only these days is quite senseless, it almost 
totally wastes good code, kewl graphics and music! So we decided to make two 
language versions of our mag. We wanted to translate around 30 of the best 
articles and make a release. Do you think it's so simple? («c1»no! - ED) «c2»People, 
that in the first moment were quite willing to do those translations, were 
disappearing in mysterious circumstances. It was a real pain to find some 
helpful souls. There were postings on a polish scene portal, on a polish Amiga 
portal, IRC actions. Do you think we found anybody? Do you think, that somebody 
came forward to us? No way. But I hope, that WE WILL make that release, English 
version is something we must do. With many or few articles - it will be. And if 
you will display it on your monitor, appreciate it, because it is (was, will 
be...) so hard to manage. (Do you want to do some spell-checking? Contact me! 
;])«»
«»
«e»