ecnew.font,8
«»
«c1»«ac»
GooGoo review«»
«»
«c3»By KAM_ of IRIS«»
«»«as»«c2»
I'm sure, that every one of us likes to receive presents Each year there are 
some occasions, when we can give or get gifts - birthdays, other anniversaries, 
or even valentines. One of the most important moments when people are giving 
gifts to their best friends and families is Christmas (for Christians of 
course). On the occasion of these holidays, the Amiga-scene received a very 
sympathetic present. It was sponsored by the Zenon group.«»
«»
Firstly - I would like to congratulate the group with reaching the number of ten 
GooGoo chip-pack issues. Secondly - I'd like to say thank you to those guys 
for still being motivated - it is quite something these days. :) Thirdly - end 
of the bullshit, let's go the merits.«»
«»
The whole archive is really small, the .exe file is 495 kbytes. Run it and 
what will we see? A banal 'Zenon' inscription (yeah, it's a kind of logo), 
which looks like it was made in five minutes in Photoshop with 'brush' tool and 
with added 'Bevel and emboss' effect. On the next picture we can see 
something really strange, but I suppose it is the title picture. And then, with 
the really simple effect, screen switches to the pack's main window. Usage is as 
easy as it could be: function keys are changing modules and with the cursor keys 
we can change the page in traditional info. Well - what we see in the main 
window isn't very attractive for the eyes. Graphics are in fact very schematic, 
absolutely basic and it's made up of few colours and lines. On the left side we 
got two rectangles - in the first there are titles of the tunes, the second one 
contains another simple effect  a rotating cube (no, without textures ). And 
on the right side there is a lot of place for the written word. Generally 
everything is rather ugly, but functional, clear and intuitive.«»
«»
As we can discover while reading the info, this pack was prepared without any 
graphician... That function was taken over by Mice (who is AFAIK musician and 
editor... ). Oh well, now let me describe my impressions about the code of the 
production. This is another Achilles' heel. The old code by Tohe was used here. 
It has few fancy features, meaning it has direct access to the Amiga chips, AGA 
and Paula... :) There is no AHI support, the pack will not start on a machine 
with a gfx card should I even start mentioning such systems as MorphOS and 
AmigaOS 4? That's a real pity, but as Mice wrote (and it's my opinion too), the 
majority of scene productions viewers are using 68k or UAE these days. Mice also 
wrote that switching from the pack to the system can freeze it. He's right. :) 
This means you can't listen to the tunes and work in the Workbench 
simultaneously. It is a really big drawback.«»
«»
Now let's go to the tunes, which are the most important thing in the chip-pack. 
There are seven tracks, they sound quite oldschool six of them are written by 
Mice, the one is from Buzzer. The info tells us that all of those were composed 
specially for that production. Well, it's not difficult to hear that... I got 
the feeling that they were written without inspiration, just for the 
production. Practically none of them is exceeding the two minutes of length 
range, they persist about 1:30. The tunes are really simple compositions, their 
structure isn't too complicated. We got the main theme of the module first the 
author makes a little introduction and then we can hear over one minute or 
something, a variation around that theme. Of course I generalize things a bit, 
but am I misled? I like the most happy and brisk Booster (it opens the pack) 
and the tune which is hidden behind the F7 key - Teknotesti 2, which is really 
atmospheric. It sounds good, but IMO - chips should be more synthetic. Quite 
sympathetic are also Nightlight and Pedro-Crack - well-invented and well-
made. The rest of the tunes aren't interesting to me at all.«»
«»
Thus, what is the most annoying thing for me, is the length of the modules. They 
are too short, too simple and that's the reason why I can't sufficiently enjoy 
the music. We get something like a salad - it is OK, but where is the real 
meal? Besides - Mice's domination on the composer list means that the tracks 
aren't varied. The should be more contributions from other musicians, it could 
enrich the production.«»
«»
It's time to sum it up. GooGoo #10 is a really simple contribution to the 
Amiga scene, it has some faults, although it's a quite nice chip-pack. Mice has 
shown that it is possible to do something more on the scene, he showed that 
Zenon is alive, he proved, that he's still active and let the mother Gaia bless 
him for that with dozens of children. I'm sure, that the next time will be 
much better.«»
«»
«e»