ecnew.font,8
«»
«c1»«ac»
Hacks for Tracks - review«»
«»
«c3»By KAM_ of IRIS«»
«»«as»«c2»
Who would think that already in January 2005 the Amiga community would get their 
hands on a brand new scene production. And yet! The irreplaceable 
Loaderror/Ephidrena did the nice surprise for us and once again he's beating the 
records. This time we received a music-disk in four kilobytes from him... It 
isn't the first production of this type by the Norwegian coder. Something like 
it appeared in the year 2001 and was called "Brus". What was changed since then? 
Read on...«»
«»
I thought initially my Amiga wouldn't permit me to see the production. I have 
already begun to curse the Apollo card and the lameness of the coder. The pack, 
in the attempt of firing up, was returning the message "out of memory" with my 
32 MB FAST. So I tried to start it without the startup-sequence. And of course, 
it seemed everything would be OK then. Well, after 'bout 10 minutes of a black 
screen (I was thinking that it's the pre-calc...) some shit was appearing on the 
monitor and a guru jumped out. Cleaning the CHIP memory was my last thought (I 
have about 1.3 MB after Workbench boot-up). Bingo! After throwing the wallpaper 
out and reducing the colours in the Screeenmode to eight (hehe) "Hacks for 
Tracks" was on da screen!«»
«»
How was it possible to guess, that we will see no graphics here.. We find only 
code and music. And what is this code? Quite hard to judge. It loads to the CHIP 
RAM, it's AGA- and Paula-direct (which is probably quite frustrating for the 
soundcards/gfxcards owners and MorphOS/AmigaOS 4 users). But those issues are 
redelegated to the second row! This isn't just a plain production, it's a 
"barrier-breaker". Besides, those are only four kilobytes. We shouldn't expect 
the coder to waste precious bytes to make it playable on some peripherals that 
aren't needed to run the pack. The main goal is to show how much a single man 
can put into the 4kB file. Loaderror put in a lot.«»
«»
The whole thing is only one screen. In the background we can see the effect that 
reminds me about "ants on the snow" on the TV screen, when we can't find a 
signal. :) It's nicer of course, the colours are really aesthetical. On the 
right side of the screen we have three lines of text. In the first one there is 
the "Hacks for Tracks" caption, in the second one we can see the title of the 
currently played track, and at the bottom there's only one word which is 
"Ephidrena". Another nice thing are the four small flashing cubes in the middle 
of the screen. Those are some kind of scopes, one for each Paula channel. The 
scope lights with the red colour when something plays in the channel. Kewl.
;)«»
«»
The handling was designed for retarded people... and it's perfect. :) Left mouse 
button is the track-switcher. You can also press the right one when you're 
bored. :) And who needs more? There is a pre-calc when the pack starts and also 
after each track-switching. I must admit that on my 040/40 it takes from several 
to dozen of seconds; it's quite fast! And during the pre-calc our lovely "ants 
on the snow" are paused, everything goes to grey scale and the field with the 
title of the track is replaced by "calculating next...". It looks really good! 
Another thing is, that we don't have to change the tracks by hand all the time - 
when the first one is over another one is being pre-calced and played.«»
«»
Now it's time for writing about the music. We have four modules here, Loaderror 
is the author of them all. Wow, his sound-engine was >really< upgraded. It's the 
well known sound like in "Timur Lenk", "Fist Pig", or "Finnmark". But we can 
hear a completely new suite of rendered samples and the sound is much cleaner. 
Maybe the modules aren't awesome, but I somehow enjoyed them. They're quite 
similar to each other - atmospheric electro minimal – is what I call the style. 
:) The best are "Buck the Fuck" and "Seal for Meal" - with really good sequences 
and showy reverbs. Only good thing in "Hex for Sex" is that fat bassdrum (I love 
the sound) and the "Boil in Oil" is crap - one short theme looped for a several 
minutes. In the beginning it gives us a calm, sleepy mood. But later it's simply 
boring. When I recall Burzum's album "Daudi Baldrs", I think it's the Norwegian 
speciality. :D«»
«»
All in all, "Hack for Tracks" is a really successful production. It shows us how 
many fireworks can be squeezed out of four kilobytes. But most importantly we 
were introduced to the probably best sound-engine ever made on the Amiga 
platform in that size category. What will the response of Exploder/Push 
Entertainment and Pezac/Nature be? Hopefully we'll see it (or rather - hear it) 
soon! And now I'm waiting for new Ephidrena's 4k and 64k intros. Of course - 
with new sound too.«»
«»
«e»