ecnew.font,8
«»
«c1»«ac»
THE KINDERGARDEN 2004 PARTY REPORT«»
«»
«c3»By Zerox of Gods«»
«c2»«»«as»
This  is not the party report of Kindergarden 2005 as I wasn't present there
this  year.   Therefore  you'll have to settle with my report from the KG party
last  year. If you can read German and subscribed to the now "deceased" mag
AmigaPlus,  you've  already  read  this report nearly a year ago.  Pssst...
don't tell anyone that I recycle my articles.  ;-) («c1»damn it Zerox, you're not making this easy for yourself ;)
- ED)«»
«»
«c4»Introduction«»
«c2»«»
The Kindergarden party was held between the 17th and 19th of September 2004
at Haga, a small place many miles outside of Oslo/Norway.«»
«»
That  year  it was ten years ago since the first Kindergarden was held, and
therefore  the  name  Kgb  (for  those  that  understand  computer  terms).
Naturally  the  organizers  wanted  to celebrate the anniversary.  However,
there have only been arranged nine ordinary Kindergarden parties so far, in
addition  to  the  Kindergarden mini-series.  In fact  Kindergarden 2 and 3
haven't been held yet.  But in 2006 the 10th KG might get arranged.«»
«»
While  the Gathering Party held each eastern in Norway is the world largest
computer event, that party can't be compared to the Kindergarden party when
it  comes  to  atmosphere.   A long time ago all the Norwegian sceners were
present  at  the  Gathering parties, now all the creative sceners choose to
visit the Kindergarden and the Solskogen parties instead.«»
«»
The  Kindergarden  party is a pure scene event, and no gamers were found at
this years edition either.  However, the last 4 years (including this year)
people  from  other computer platforms than the Amiga have been allowed to
attend.   This  year for instance, there were sceners from the Amiga scene,
the C64 scene, the Atari scene and the PC scene at least.«»
«»
«c4»Facilities«»
«c2»«»
The party-hall could room up to 100 people when considering there should be
a  table and a chair for everyone.  This year there were plenty of space as
only  around  45 registered and unregistered sceners were participating the
party.   Unfortunately,  the  number  of attendees are decreasing for every
year that passes by.«»
«»
In  the  party-hall there was a stage, and the entertainment was being held
up  there.   The  moderators  of  KG  also  delivered all the messages and
announcements from the stage.«»
«»
There  was  set up a temporary kitchen in the hall also.  But the selection
of  food  wasn't as big as last year.  However, it was at least possible to
buy toast for 25 NOK (4 Euros or so).«»
«»
There  was  a separate sleeping-room, which perhaps could room 10-20 people
at  the  same  time.   It was warm and comfortable, but it didn't manage to
keep  out the noise from the main-hall.  Besides, people were also sleeping
everywhere else, from the main-hall to behind the stage and more.«»
«»
New  this year is the fact that there was a new building set up.  Therefore
we  used the new entrance.  There were new nice toilets and more.  However,
now we were cut off from the Kindergarden in the basement as earlier years.
The guys that wanted to play had to go outdoors, hehe.«»
«»
The  Kindergarden  party  also  offered showers.  That is, the showers were
located  in a building around 10 kilometers away from the party place.  The
showers  were  also only available on Saturday between 15.00 and 17.00, but
offered lots of warm water at least.«»
«»
«c4»The Party«»
«c2»«»
This  year  I  think there were pretty much the same amount of sceners from
the  Amiga  demo scene as from the PC demo scene, and there were also a few
people from the C64 and Atari scene.«»
«»
Even  though  there  were  less people at the Kindergarden party this year,
compared  to  the  previous year, the atmosphere was still good.  About the
entire  active  Amiga demo scene of Norway were present at the party place.
There  were  sceners  from  Apathy, Contraz, DCS, Ephidrena, Gods, Haujobb,
Spaceballs  and  Squirrelz.   In  addition to this, there were at least two
foreign  sceners,  but  those  two were PC sceners.  The only scener really
missed,  was  actually Slummy/Spaceballs who happened to be in Finland at
that time.«»
«»
There  was various entertainment at the stage, but this year there weren't
many demos shown  due to some new curtains and the light in the room.  It
was only possible to use the projector pretty late on the evening.  Instead
there  a movie was shown, and the surprise compos happened up at the stage.
In fact, one of the surprise compos I would dare to say could be described as
one  of  the highlights of the entire party.  I'm talking about the karaoke
competition,  where  3  sceners  had  to  perform  a  song  chosen  by  the
organizers.  This was a real take off...  some attendees really put maximum
effort  into  the  competition.   The  atmosphere was really great.  Other
surprise  compos  were the drunken master competition, and the "how to boil
an  egg"  -  compo.   The  first  compo  never  got  started due to various
problems,  but  the  egg-compo  got  arranged.   Unfortunately,  one of the
participants  didn't  manage to boil an egg as he should.  Therefore he got
an  egg  smashed on his head.  I have to add that the participants couldn't
use  any  equipment  within  the partyplace to boil the eggs.  As last year
there was also a Dj playing music, it was Xhale/DCS&Haujobb.«»
«» 
The  sceners  were enjoying themselves; chatting with each other, drinking
as  alcohol  was allowed inside the party-place, and they were going out to
the bonfire.  The atmosphere was quite relaxed and friendly.«»
«»
The  only  negative aspects of the party this year, is that we had one very
short  power failure,  and  there  weren't  many Amiga contributions.  Quite
strange  considering  most  of the productive forces of the Norwegian
scene  were  present;  from  coders to musicians and graphicians.  Not many
Amiga  sceners  had prepared any contributions, nor brought with them their
machines this time around unfortunately.«»
«»
«c4»The Contributions«»
«c2»«»
There  were  not many contributions at this party, and I'll mostly focus on
the Amiga contributions.«»
«»
This  time  there  were  no  Amiga contributions whatsoever in the demo nor
intro-competitions.   Apathy was working for some time on a swaptro, but it
didn't really get finished.«»
«»
In the other competitions with Amiga contributions, like the 64k executable
music  compo,  there  was one Amiga contribution.  It was called Loaderror,
and surprisingly enough done by Loaderror/Ephidrena.  It came second in the
compo.«»
«»
In  the high quality music compo several high-profiled sceners participated.
Useless/Spaceballs  won  with "Turbofart 2003", and Frequent/Ephidrena came
third  with  "Klar  For  Slakt".  Another Ephidrena member, Zixaq, came 4th
with  his  song  called "Disparagement Disorder".  Maze/Apathy competed with
two  entries, and "Limited Existence" came 7th, while "Cross Of Youth" came
9th.«»
«»
In  the  gfx-compo  a  few guys with background in the Amiga scene got some
good  rankings as well.  Bridgeclaw/Gods participated in his first compo in
9  years,  and  won  with the picture named "The Ascend".  Rage/Apathy came
third with his contribution called "Pumpkin".«»
«»
Chauple/Contraz  made  a contribution to the wild compo, but his break-dance
on the beach didn't do very well.«»
«»
Most  other contributions were made by PC sceners, including all the demos.
There  weren't any very good demos / intros at this party, but some effects
in  the  PC productions "Lumotronik", "Little Ball Of Water" and "Pathetic"
could be ok to watch.«»
«»
«c4»End remarks«»
«c2»«»
This  edition  of  the  KG  party  was  enjoyable,  even without many Amiga
contributions.  It's a nice scene event done for sceners by sceners.«»
«»
At  12.30  hours  the  last  day  the prize-ceremony was held.  Unlike other
parties, the prizes aren't much to talk about.  The important thing for the
sceners  are  to  meet  other  sceners and sometimes compete for honour and
pride.   Despite  of  that,  some T-shirts and various other, more strange stuff
was  given  away.  And even more original were prizes as food and something
to drink...«»
«»
The few contributions at this party was just a bonus really, but I guess we
will get more productions at the next Kindergarden party.  Be there!«»
«»
«e»