ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
Life without the Scene«»
«»
«c3»By Wade/ex-scene«»
«»«c2»«as»
As some readers will know, I made a rash announcement on Pouet.net some 
months ago that I was done with the scene. It frightened me to see how much 
time I had spent in front of my computer, dedicated to a banal, 
unrewarding, unhealthy and detrimental hobby. I'd spend hours writing 
articles or posts whining about scene spirit or trying to defend copied 
graphics, when the real issue is how anyone could waste their life staring 
into a computer screen painting those damn pictures in the first place?«»
«»
To be blunt, most sceners are just like all the other socially stunted 
nerds shrinking away from the world. Many are unfit and unhealthy, of poor 
appearance and hygiene and are destined to remain at the bottom rung of the 
social ladder until they make the effort to change. Furthermore, the sort 
of antics that transpire at many 'scene' parties these days epitomizes the 
anti-social behaviour of the frustrated, attention-starved computer geek. 
Grown men running around semi- or sometimes completely naked, festering in 
their own sweat, vomit and urine, and acting like buffoons is not the most 
alluring image of the scene. But clearly these people don't care. Why? 
Because they don't have any dignity to lose.«»
«»
Two things clinched it for me. The first was a completely trivial and 
pointless discussion on Pouet.net. I don't even remember what it was about, 
but I sat there reading, eating pizza and smoking, until this intense 
depression came over me realising this right here is my life. I have the 
potential to do so much with my life: make money, travel the world, meet 
friends and date hot women, educate myself and others, or generally serve 
some purpose to the world, yet sitting there reading Pouet.net, I'm just 
taking up space and resources and may as well not exist at all. A scary and 
quite upsetting thought. The second thing that got to me was looking at 
some party pictures at Slengpung.com. It really saddened me to see the 
physical neglect and deteriation sceners put themselves through for their 
hobby, with their junk food and alcohol consumption, lack of exercise, lack 
of sleep, long term exposure to monitor radiation, poor hygiene and fashion 
sense.«»
«»
I don't intend to throw insults at people. I have made some good friends in 
the scene and admire the dedication of some sceners, and some sceners I 
have known are living outstanding lives outside of the scene, but others 
(such as myself) dedicate their entire lives to scening and lose all 
purpose in life. Please do yourself a favour and make living a priority! 
Instead of getting defensive and hating me for revealing a painful truth, 
take a look at what you have become and how you are spending your lives. 
Look at the sort of activities that make up your days, the people you are 
trying to impress and ask yourself, is it really worth the time and 
trouble? I quit the scene because I don't want my mind and body to stagnate 
behind a computer, reading and contributing to inane topics on websites, 
inane productions and inane conversations. In years to come, I don't want 
my fondest memories framed by a computer monitor.«»
«»
Sure, we can all talk and dream about the lives we wish to lead and moan on 
web forums about the injustices we have to face in the cold and cruel 
world, but do any of you ever consider changing that? This was a firm 
decision I made when I retired from the scene and I have stuck to it. I now 
visit a gym 3-4 times a week, I'm in the best shape of my life and 
improving. I have quit smoking and improved my diet; I have been dating 
women up until meeting my current girlfriend. I socialise with groups of 
friends and I am always continuing to make more. I have become fashion 
conscious, take pride in my appearance and go clothes shopping (as opposed 
to hardware/software shopping). My studies are improving and I'm taking 
time to read, increase my knowledge and generally improve my intellect and 
I still have time spare when I can chill out and watch a few demos at my 
leisure.«»
«»
When you think about how much dedication and effort goes into making demos 
it's insane! I came to realise that any person with this much dedication 
has outstanding potential to achieve whatever they set their mind to. This 
is an amazing gift, but there are far more productive and rewarding ways to 
channel your efforts than the scene and computers.«»
«»
There is no such thing as nerd or geek genes. This is an image you CREATE, 
a lifestyle you CHOOSE to lead and a deterioration of your body and mind 
that you ALLOW to happen. You could just as easily be fit and healthy, 
popular, fashionable, successful and educated. But if the scene is how you 
want to spend your life, then don't let me discourage you.«»
«»
«e»