ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
Money talks...«»
«»
«c3»By KAM_ of IRIS«»
«»«as»«c2»
As far, as my young mind can remember, copy-parties were always an integral part 
of the demoscene. They had a few important functions. Firstly, it was a great 
place to meet the new people, or those guys, who for months or even years had 
been your friends, but whom you've never seen for 'real'. It was a great place 
to come with HDD and copy all the latest scene productions. Finally, it was the 
place where the various competitions went on, where you find out - who is the 
best coder, musician, graphician, and honoured them. One of the most important 
demoscene dogmas is the non-profit character. But according to the scale of a 
copy-party, winners of compos were awarded: with a symbolical reward, or with a 
quite expensive prize. From where did the organizers get the money for it? 
Sometimes sponsors helped, but mainly it was funded from the entrance-fee. It 
was a practice - you paid for your award. ;) And what would happen if someone, 
who had not paid (by not being present at the party-place for example...) would 
like to collect the compo-price?«»
«»
April. Anno Domini 2004. Breakpoint party forum. An interesting discussion 
occurred here; it was inspired by one rule of this party. The organizers said 
that the people who hadn't shown up at the party place (ergo: hadn't paid), 
couldn't take part in the competitions. (It wasn't the first nor the last time 
in the history of the demoscene). How was it justified? Well - the organizers 
argued that collecting prizes without paying the entrance-fee is not
fair.«»
«»
Parties from last years are showing us, that we aren't buried in really high-
quality productions. So why should party organizes cut themselves away from a 
(potentially) huge source of party stuff? Still - the quantity of present 
sceners never will get bigger than the quantity of absent sceners. :) So, those 
absent ones could be authors of outstanding productions too! For me, that euro, 
or 50 cents from my ticket, that is earmarked for prizes, can be given to a guy, 
who hasn't paid that euro himself - he just has to create something really 
impressing, something ass-kickin'.«»
«»
But OK, time for a somewhat more logical argument. I wasn't present at the BP04 
party, but my module was in the multichannel music competition. Yes, yes, I 
intentionally broke the rules, but it's not the point. How could it happen, that 
my prod was played during the party? Well, my group mate - Darkhawk («c1»yeah, 
thanks for telling the world that I am a criminal - ED) «c2»- carried it for me to 
this party. Was it illegal? Not really! We were just following the organizer's 
way of thinking - the one who paid for the entrance, can put a contribution in 
each of the party compos. Darkhawk paid, so why should he waste his right to 
compete in the music compo? Is it important who the author is?«»
«»
But if organizers are really so afraid about their budgets, then I got a little 
suggestion. You can let those absent sceners take part in competitions, but 
without the possibility of collecting any eventual prize. In my opinion, it's 
the most logical and fair compromise. (Yes, I still remember, that I'm not the 
only man in the scene...)«»
«»
Oh wait, wait... Some time ago I read somewhere that sending contributions to a 
party without visiting it is the reason why the quantity of party people is 
smaller every year. Bullshit. In 2003 I've sent my music to three different 
countries: Belarus, Hungary and Germany. I'm only a poor student, so I really 
don't have money to visit even a few countries (even European) in one year. Nay 
- from Millennium 2k3 (BL) orgaz I received a quite nice diploma (2nd in 4-ch 
compo), and from Function (H) organizers I got a really cool goblet (2nd in 
multichannel). ;]] I got nothing from tUM 03 for a 3rd place in the m-chan. 
competition. :P So, as uou can see, with a bit of goodwill, everything is 
possible. And if I'm not going to a party, it is because I have some reasons for 
not going. But the reason is not that I have the possibility to compete without 
being there.«»
«»
There is something else that I would like to point out. I've read on the above 
mentioned BP04 forum that giving the prices to guys who have not paid an 
entrance fee is simply unfair. I think it's absolutely fair, as long as the 
scener will show us something special, something what will give him a victory. 
The prices are for the best, for the most talented, not for the ones who
paid.«»
«»
OK, if you guys (somebody's reading this? ;]) are still convinced that giving 
the prices to non-attenders is so fucking unfair, there are few proposals in 
this tiny article. The next step belongs to party organizers around the
world.«»
«»
PS: the last thing I want to do, is criticising party organizers, especially 
Breakpoint orgaz, for being greedy or something. It's not about money, it's 
about fairness.«»
«»
«e»