ecnew.font,8
«c1»«ac»
"Not this way"«»
«c3»«»
By KAM_ of IRIS«»
«c1»«as»«»
"There's no story in the demo, just stand-alone scenes. Fine to me; if I
wanted a story I'd rather watch a movie anyway. When I watch a demo I just
want eye candy and great music"«»
«c2»«»
Dreyer, D.I.S.C. #12 - about Maturefurk demo "Lapsuus"«»
«c4»»«»
WHICH WAY?«»
«c2»«»
After about twenty years of crack-demo scene existence, I don't want to
begin discussing: what is a demo? Everyone can view this in a different 
way - as a show of coder abilities, as the good taste of the designer 
or in many other ways. And that might be a courageous thesis, but I must 
say: It's a great pity, but for several years demos have not evolved. 
Their development just stopped.«»
«»
The demo is a collection of some strange visual effects with music
playing in a background (or not at all :)). And why are some people so
fascinated with it? Well - just look into the code! Chaos and beauty in 
one body! In the past, demo effects had to be showy in regards to the code.
Today they should also look nice. This is of course understandable - I 
can't imagine a new production without at least a little bit of design. 
The history of demos is very interesting. At the beginning they were 
more ambitious - what mattered was abilities, not the package. Today these
things are swapped. When we show a demo with old and boring effects, but
with great design to the average scener, he'll probably like this piece 
of crap. And here demomakers have put themselves into the blind alley.«»
«»
Kitsch has sneaked into the demoscene productions. Yesterday it was 
given to us with knowledge and class, today we've got more form, less 
content. Yesterday the rank of real coders were content, today they've 
disappeared, or they are depended on for data compression - how to put 
a 3 MB module into the 64 intro for example.. Well - when I heard about 
that, it was outstanding for me, but what has this to do with the 
visual side of the production? It is more of an interesting informatics 
solution than something visual.«»
«»
Demos were developed upon until one moment - 1996 more or less. At that 
time, new elements were introduced in demos. Somewhere around there the 
static camera was kicked out of 3D. And then a revolutionary demo was 
released - "Relic" by Nerve Axis. Why does the demoscene refuse to go in 
that direction? I am not able to understand this!«»
«»
Why revolutionary? Not because of 3D! That is the first demoscene production
where a story was told without using words. Besides - the work done by 
Schlott was absolutely amazing! In a classical demo no one will discover
anything new. Nobody will do something really great. Yes - it is still 
possible to make good productions, but personally I think that making 
demos with classical rules at the beginning of 2003, 2004 or 2005 is 
senseless.«»
«»
The people from Nerve Axis were visionaries. Back then, they already 
knew which track the scene should ride. They've given us the promise 
that they'll make their next demo when other group creates something 
that will beat "Relic". But until now nothing like that was born 
(1997-2005, 8 years!!!). This is, among other things, my opinion, but 
you can just look at the old democharts in Eurochart to find out that 
it is not only mine. "Relic" has put a greater part of the scene on 
its knees in front of it, so why did the demomakers not go in the 
footsteps of Nerve Axis?«»
«»
And demos are still a great means of artistic expression. If they only 
matched their form to that of the movie! And this is a good cue to 
return to Dreyer's words. The demo has to be "eye candy and great 
music" only? If the answer is "yes", then I'm interested in one thing: 
will Dreyer like the movie that is build only with special effects?«»
«»
Well, probably not - when he wants a story, he goes to the cinema. Why 
then not put stories into demos? Why don't create them making the most 
of the things that the scene has obtained up till' these days? The 
camera can fly around the heroes of our story instead of thoughtless 
flying around stupid objects. Is it too difficult for the coders to 
make the story a quasi-movie? Not true! Graphicians will not manage? 
In the Photoshop era? I don't think so! There are no good musicians 
on the market? No shit! What is up then?«»
«»
The scene simply does not see the problem! Everyone wades further 
into this, and those who get bored are leaving the scene. Maybe they 
are bored with the whole scene or maybe they can find nuttin' 
interesting in modern prods? Well, demos don't make a big impression 
on me these days. Of course, I still like to watch them, but... The 
last production which exerted any real influence on me was... "Relic"! 
Okay, but what about demos like "Rise" by Mellow Chips, or "Lapsuus" by 
Maturefurk. Their form is similar to a British pearl. "Rise" is my 
second favourite scene production, and had music better than
"Relic", when we look at composition. "Lapsuus" is also a good piece of
shit - short scene with man on gondola, or destruction of city  - these
are not bad! Those two demos had only one problem - they have no story. 
In "Rise" Mellow Chips took up the average-succeeded trail, but 
"Lapsuus" is in 100% freestyle. In the first - separate scenes are 
united together, in the second - well, you know that the situation 
is completely different. And once again zero content, once again a 
little bit of monotony.«»
«c4»«»
SO WHAT SHOULD WE DO?«»
«c2»«»
What is my conception for a new-era demo? IMO a modern demo should 
contain some story, some kind of concept. This comes from the graphic 
side of things - this is what the scene does best. There are still 
good graphicians, there are many good designers. So - clever 
story/concept, excellent graphics, brilliant design and original, 
ambitious music that fits - this is what I'm waiting for!«»
«»
I'm not telling you - write a story! I'm not waiting for demo-movies. 
Well, they would also be great :), but for me the most important thing 
is an idea. An Idea! Not effects. Fuck effects. Please guys, give me 
something more than design that shows some strange objects on the
screen.«»
«»
Does that mean I completely reject making
productions with classical effects? Not at all! Yet there are intros, which
today are more showy than demos. And indeed, at the present moment 64 or 
4 kilobyte files wake in me a continuous interest. The 4k intros of 
Exploder, Ephidrena, 64k by Potion. Well - with those forgotten ones - 
a lot of good shit! Slowly a distinct border between demo and intro is 
disappearing. What does that mean? Demos are in stagnation. And that's
hy I say: intros = effects in classical style (but impressive!), 
demos = concepts. Very simple.«»
«»
But - maybe I'm alone on this desert?«»
«»
«e»