ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
Working demos and Issues under OS4«»
«»
«c3»By Varthall / Up Rough«»
«»«as»«c2»
June has witnessed the release of a new update for the pre-release version of 
AmigaOS 4, bringing in new functionalities and fixing some bugs. But what is the 
situation regarding the demo scene on this platform, you might ask?«»
«»
It is well known that the first demo for AmigaOS 4 was Zero by Universe, which 
uses only a software render for all the 3d stuff. This demo used to work on OS4 
since the first pre-release came out last year, but it doesn't anymore under the 
latest Update 3 since there have been changes in the video drivers. Luckily a 
workaround exists! For owners of a Radeon card like myself it is enough to 
rename the file ATIRadeon.chip inside the SYS:Kickstart drawer to, say, 
ATIRadeon.backup then to copy the older ATIRadeon.chip from Update 1, and then 
reboot the system. This workaround might apply to Voodoo users too. Don't forget 
to rename the newer driver back again when you're not watching the demo
anymore!«»
«»
Regarding native stuff for OS4, in the past months a bunch of SDL demos from Fit 
have been ported to our system, thanks to the high degree of portability allowed 
by the SDL library. While we are waiting for new productions, thanks to the 
Update 3 we can now run some of the WarpOS ones! Personally I've never run any 
PPC demo, since I've never owned a PPC accelerator, so I've been curious to know 
if I'd finally be able to see at least some of them. Firbodi and Toaks on the 
amigaworld.net forums have tested many WarpOS demos. The result is that at least 
on AmigaOne the compatibility depends on the hardware used, as was also the case 
with the PowerUp equipped classic machines. With a Voodoo card, most MadWizards, 
Mankind demos as well as others from Encore, Nah Kolor and Amnesty are reported 
to work.«»
«»
Since I have a Radeon 9200, the working list got shorter, this is what I've 
managed to run so far, with some advices on how to make them work:«»
«»
«c4»Universe - No Sync
«c2»«»
To make the sound work, I had to change the AHI modeid argument for my soundcard 
in the demo launch batchfile, as described in the readme, in my case it was -
I0x00340002 for my Soundblaster PCI 128. A 640x480x16 screenmode must be 
available, as it runs in fullscreen mode. It runs fast and smooth, and it exits 
cleanly, the only problem is the pointer which is visible and corrupted during 
the demo, you have to move it to one of the borders to hide it.«»
«»
«c4»Universe - No Sync is Back!
«c2»«»
Had to change the AHI modeid as in the previous Universe demo. Here the 
Workbench's pointer is visible, too, but at least it's not corrupted :). The 
demo ends with a guru, it's possible to kill the program but the screen remains 
open, and it can't be killed with KillWinGUI since it doesn't get
listed.«»
«»
«c4»Mankind - Pro Gear Spec, Violent Dumb, Deathtrial«»
«c2»«»
These demos open a configuration window before starting; the video must be set 
to "Workbench window", since 15bit screens apparently can't be set under 
Picasso96Mode, and audio must be set to "Ask AHI requester". Audio seems to work  
only with Emu10kx compatible cards, using the latest version (6) of both the 
driver and AHI, as it was reported by Firbodi. With the SB128 driver the sound 
output is garbled, possibly since there's still no version 6 of the driver.
These compatibility issues are common to all the programs using the 68k 
dbplayer.library.«»
«»
«c4»Artwork - Megademo IV«»
«c2»«»
Similar problems as with the Mankind demos, video working ok but no
sound.«»
«»
There is still a bunch of demos reported to work (with the correct settings 
and/or datatypes), but I haven't tested them yet.«»
«»
What about the future of the OS4 scene? Nowadays it has made its first, very 
early steps, it's still uncertain if it will grow up to become a mature scene. 
There are news of some projects going on; only time will tell whether this new 
incarnation of the Amiga OS will find its way in the heart of the scene groups. 
I really wish that this happens, the new OS would deserve it!«»
«»
(Thanks to Firbodi and Toaks for the compatibility list)«»
«»
«e»