ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
PATCHED DEMOS?«»
«»
«c3»By Darkhawk of IRIS«»
«»«as»«c2»
It had to happen sooner or later, and now we've come right into the midst of
it:«»
«»
Re-releases, final versions and even beta versions of new scene releases.«»
«»
What has plagued the PC for ages in regards to games, is now making its way
to the demoscene. At parties, we have for some time experienced party
versions of bigger projects like demos, with the 'final' version coming at
some point after the party. Of note, TBL and Loonies both do this. Others
would do it too, as most groups seem to promise stable, bug free, final
releases of their products after a party, but only a few deliver before
they loose interest in the project. The trend however is clear.«»
«»
We're not exactly at the stage where patches are released for us to upgrade
our demos with (probably because we don't have a good patching system), but
there seems to be a change of perception regarding this area. Before, you
released your production at a party, and that was it. It either failed or
succeeded, and afterwards you looked back upon it as a milestone, a release,
no matter how buggy it might have been. However, usually it wasn't buggy,
nor was it that incomplete, because if you didn't manage to finish your
demo or rid it of bugs, you simply did not release it, and that was it. Now
it is ok to decide to release something, if it can work somewhat ok on the
compo machine. Then later, a final version can be released, and people seem
to accept this. If nothing else, you can at least pretend you're going to
release a final version, and thus get more sympathy for your buggy, halfway
finished production.«»
«»
This is how it is now, and actually I do understand it. It's not exactly
that we have played so many bug ridden PC games, and are brainlessly used to
getting patches of everything before we can use it. The fact that there are
not many parties to release stuff on also plays in. If you miss releasing
your big new demo at Breakpoint, you can either opt to get it into the
combined Assembly demo compo or wait until the next Breakpoint, provided
that you want it to compete with the best and make the biggest impact.
Thus, you really have no choice, if not releasing it would entail you
waiting another year. Probably many feel this way, most likely TBL in
particular, though the same probably applies to Loonies, MAWI and ourselves
in IRIS. We also released Heartcore at Breakpoint 2004 though it was only
around 50% complete and with some irritating bugs. Shame on us really, but
it is hard not to, when you know you have a one year window of opportunity
to time it for. Breakpoint has simply become THE Amiga party, in fact with 
recent party cancellations it might very well be the only one. Thus, not 
releasing becomes increasingly difficult. Naturally, sceners should have 
finished their productions before they arrive at the party, but we all know how
likely THAT is...«»
«»
So, this thing with releasing final versions after parties is quite
understandable, if not something I'd like in a perfect world. NOW however,
we have come to another level of this phenomenon. Going in the opposite
direction, I have just seen the first ever officially declared BETA release
of a production, namely Trinity's chipmusic pack Chipmunks issue 2.
Actually, this is a nice, albeit small production, but the BETA name is
probably due to it only containing 5 chiptunes and no mouse input. Well, a
great many other releases should deserve to be called 'beta' too then, half
of the releases at parties usually. However, actually using that term marks
another 'milestone' for the scene, and I don't hope this is the direction
we're going in, steadily growing so small and short of resources, that we
release buggy and incomplete releases, stopping short of calling it a
'beta'. As long as we are doing final releases of our products, that's
something, but as it seems most groups who promise such releases fail to
deliver them, even this might be too much of an effort.«»
«»
In the end, it would be nice if people were either less ambitious with
their demo projects, so that they could realize them before the deadline, or
otherwise that they simply did not release them before they were in reality
finished. That would be in a perfect world though.«»
«»
«e»