ecnew.font,8
«»
«c1»«ac»REVIEWS, REVIEWS AND MORE REVIEWS...«»
«c3»«»
By Zerox of Gods«»
«c2»«as»«»
Here's  just  a  small article covering some recent productions released at
some  parties  held  in  Norway  and Denmark in November 2005.  Even though
we're  going very fast towards the end of 2005, a few neat productions just
got out.  They're worth taking a closer look at.«»
«c4»«»
QUACKER BY RNO«»
«c2»«»
This  intro  got  released  at the Kindergarden party and came third in the
combined  compo  there.   It starts off with a big logo in white displaying
po-RNO  over  a  black background.  The logo jumps up and down timed to the
music.   The intro continues with the title Quacker being shown in the same
way.  Quite boring so far and I was expecting the worst, as the technomusic
isn't  really my taste of music either.  But then suddenly Quacker is being
zoomed  out, while some blurred bobs appears in different variations in the
right  in  the  screen  and  in  the  left  there are several screens going
upwards.  Quite nice indeed.  Next up is some blurish object which is being
zoomed  and  rotated  in  all directions.  We get a fast glance at the logo
Quack, before we're back to the zooming and rotating.  Then the credits are
being  displayed  over  this,  before another fast climbs of Quack appears.
Afterwards a big object is transforming and rotating, while we see a mirror
effect  on  the  side.   Again  it is blurred  bobs  being zoomed while the
greetings  are  being  shown  on  the  right side, and multiple screens are
showing  the  greetings  on  the left side.  The next thing we see is a big
object  which  is  zooming and rotating on the left, and a mirror effect on
the  right.   Another  cool  object  is  up next, and at the end it's being
zoomed out.«»
«»
What  to  say?   It's  quite a nice little intro, including some ok effects
like  zoomblur,  multiple  screens and mirrors.  The effects are synched to
the  music.   Some  might  say  it's  a  bit  boring, but nevertheless it's
probably one of the better intros released in 2005!  Keep it up RNO!«»
«c4»«»
TAKERDENTRO BY NATURE«»
«c2»«»
This  dentro  or intro got released at the TRSAC party, but was supposed to have
been  released  at the Grep party.  Anyway, it starts off with displaying a
nice  Nature  logo  at the top.  Then a picture, which actually looks a bit
like the Undertaker, pops up in the middle of the screen.  At the bottom of
the  screen  we  get to see four cool music-controllers (equalizers).  They
are  jumping  up and down to the music which is being played on the various
channels.   Almost  at  the  same time also a sinus-scroller which is being
stretched  a  bit is being displayed over the picture in the middle of the
screen.   And  the  logo  at  the  top  starts to move a bit, before a
wave-routine / some stretching is added.  At the bottom of the screen
it  seems  like  another scroller is being shown, or to be exact, it's
the  name of the coder which is spinning around.  Everything is going on in
one screen.«»
«»
Well,  this  is  really  cool  oldschool  stuff.   The  sinus-scroller  and
equalizer  gave  us  a  flashback  to the late eighties.  Nice gfx and cool
music too.  This onescreen dentro came second in the compo.«»
«c4»«»
HAM-6 KEFRATRAZ BARS BY IRIS«»
«c2»«»
This  was  another  onescreen  (more  or  less) intro released at the TRSAC
party,  it won the compo.  We are moving 15 years back in time to look at a
certain  effect  in  productions  such  as  Mega Demo by Crionics, Vertical
Insanity  by  Razor 1911, We Are First by Alcatraz, Mega Demo VI by Kefrens
and probably some others too.  Remember that 1990 was the breakthrough year
of  all  kind  of  vectors,  and we got stunning productions such as Mental
Hangover,  Phantasmagoria,  The  Hunt  for  the 7th of October, In My Room,
Budbrain  Megademo  and many more.  Anyway, the coder wanted to test out if
it  was really possible to make Ham-6 vertical rasterbars.  The inspiration
for  this  production  was Razors Vertical Insanity, but the origin of the
effect  itself  is  said to have been the famous Kefrens with their Kefrens
bars.   Others  claim the effect first got shown in Alcatraz third Megademo
named  We  are first.  While others think it was in Crionics first megademo.
I  surely don't know, but the year 1990 got to be the year when this effect
first  got  out.   But  then  is the question, were this real Ham-6 vertical
rasterbars?  Nevertheless, IRIS now show us that it's quite possible to
make  such  an  effect.  But then again, I guess this production isn't done
with hardcore coding as in the past.  It's rather c2p I think «c1»(of course it
isn't, it runs on A500, it's pure planar - ED)«»
«c2»«»
Ah  well, over to the review instead...  ;-) This intro got a more standard
setup  as  in  the  oldschool  intros  and demos.  We get to see a cool but
rather  old  IRIS logo at the top, which is moving/changing.  In the middle
of  the  screen,  there's  another old effect being displayed (some waving
routine),  and  a  text-routine  on  top  of  that.  Below we have a double
scroller, and at the bottom some old equalizers I presume.  Yep, everything
is  going  on in one screen.  Quite nice, especially for us oldschool fans.
If  you  click  the right mouse-button, the screen changes and you'll get to see
these  ham-6  vertical  rasterbars,  which  the coder named Ham-6 Kefratraz
bars.   We  see  the  vertical  rasterbars  in  the colours of the rainbow,
twisting  around, to one and then to two.  Very nice.  The chiptune is good
too.  Watch it yourself.«»
«»
I  also  have  to  add  that  I  wanted to review more productions from the
Kindergarden  and  the  TRSAC parties, but it seems like the productions of
IRIS,  Loonies and Ephidrena are nowhere to be found yet.  Anyway, at least
Ephidrena will make a final version of their intro and release it soon.«»
«c4»«»
DEAR SANTA BY UP ROUGH«»
«c2»«»
Well, after several weeks without any real Amiga productions, it seems like
the  Up  Rough  kids  managed  to release a small intro, and therefore I've
added this bonus review to the article.«»
«»
This  production  got  released  the  24th of December, and was indeed very
inspired  by  Christmas.   First we get to see a UpRough logo, and next the
title  Dear  Santa  appears.   Then  the  music  starts,  and we get to see
something pretending to be a letter to Santa by the Up Rough members.  Down
in  the  left corner there's also added a funny looking cartoon.  There are
also  coming  snowflakes  down  the  screen.   You  have to click the right
mousebutton  to  read  all  the  wishlists  for  Christmas from the various
members of Up Rough.  That's it really.«»
«»
The idea of this intro is rather nice.  It looks like the letter is written
by  some small kids, and also the music is so fucked up that it sounds like
it's  being  played  by  little  kids.  If you listen carefully you'll even
manage  to  recognize  some  Christmas  tunes  there.  It's cool to release
something  outside  parties,  and  this seems also to be the only Christmas
intro  this year!  What happened to all the X-mas stuff?  My only objection
is that the release came so late that father Christmas probably didn't have
time  to  grant  the kids their wishes.  So you'll have to settle with this
delayed  EuroChart instead as some kind of present.  And another thing, the
music...   it  got on my nerves after a few seconds.  Great that I at least
got some CDs for Christmas I could listen to instead.«»
«e»