ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
SCEEN ISSUE 1 REVIEW«»
«c3»«»
By Zerox/Gods«»
«c2»«as»«»
Some years ago I got in touch with a very talented designer because he too
was  contributing  to  the  German papermag AmigaPlus, and because he was
very  fascinated  about  digital  art.   He told me about some very exciting
ideas  for  a  new papermagazine covering the computer scene.  Little did I
know that this guy was so passionate and serious about his project, that he, some  
years later and after LOTS of hours of hard work, managed to realize
his project better known as the papermag SCEEN.«»
«»
The  man behind it all is Alexander Scholz or Alex among friends. Hopefully you can
read a very fresh interview with him elsewhere in the EuroChart.
This article however will deal with SCEEN!«»
«»
It  was  in September 2005 the first issue of this new magazine for digital
extravaganza  got  out.  After that date it has been distributed on all the
major  creative  festivals and technical tradeshows.  However, I didn't get
my  hands  on this beauty before the 21th of December.  Yes, Christmas came
early this year.«»
«c4»«»
SO WHAT'S SCEEN ALL ABOUT?«»
«c2»«»
It looks like a pocket book, and magic appears when you open it.  It's like
a  guide  into  digital  culture  as it covers so many different aspects of
digital art.«»
«»
The  first  issue  of  this magazine offers around 70 pages of articles and
illustrations.   The  articles are dealing with the most interesting events
in  the  various  computer  scenes,  reviews  of  high quality productions,
presentation of groups through releases, interviews, introduction of games,
creation  of  animated films, introduction of software & hardware and other
insights  in  different  computer  scenes.   In  addition  to that, there's
included  a  DVD  packed  with  various digital art, including high quality
demos  and  intros,  but  also  other things like netaudio music videos, 3D
animation and more.«»
«c4»«»
CONCLUSION«»
«c2»«»
SCEEN is something so rare as a paper magazine dedicated to digital art, or
as the creators put it; It's a magazine for digital extravaganza.«»
«»
The  mag  is  presented in a very professional way, it got great design, and
generally   looks  very  cool.   And  since  the  contents  are also  quite
interesting  we can't ask for much more.  This is more or less the papermag
we've  all  been  wanting  for so long.  It got a wide concept covering all
computer  art,  so  it  will  be very interesting to see future issues.
Hopefully  the  next  issue  isn't  far away as there will be released four
issues each year.«»
«»
Nevermind  that I got the first issue of SCEEN for free...  I'm still being
quite objective, and yes...  I'll now subscribe to this magazine as so many
other sceners.«»
«»
To  get  more  information  and  insights  about  SCEEN,  do  check out the
interview  with  the  editor-in-chief,  Alexander  Scholz, elsewhere in the
Eurochart.   Also check out «c3»www.sceen.org «c2»for more details on how you'll be
able to get your hands on this mag.«»
«e»
