ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
SOLSKOGEN 2004 PRODUCTION REVIEWS«»
«»
«c3»By Zerox/Gods«»
«»«as»
«c4»Introduction«»
«c2»«»
Elsewhere in this issue of the EuroChart I've written a partyreport from the
Solskogen party which was held in Norway last June. Now I'll instead focus on
the many contributions to this party.«»
«»
«c4»The contributions«»
«c2»«»
There  were  quite  many  tracks  of  various  quality.   They weren't that
impressive,  but quite ok really.  C64 music is always cool though.  As for
the graphics, there was only one entry in the C64 compo, and it was done by
Malmis/Nature.   In  the  other  graphics  compo,  there  weren't that many
contributions either.  The winner picture by Proteque looks indeed very much 
like a  scan  to me.  You have to bring me hard evidence to change my mind.  The
only decent graphics entry after my opinion, is actually the second picture
done by xeNusion.«»
«»
There were two C64 demos, but they weren't up to the quality we usually get
from  the  cool C64 sceners.  Anyway, it's always nice seeing contributions
on  this  machine.  I'll also mention a few words about the PC demos.  Only
the  winner  demo  was  actually a serious demo, and it was rather good too
(but  short).  The other contributions were fun-stuff, and I guess you have
to  be  familiar with Norwegian characters and songs to really understand the
humour.  In the wild compo, there was a musicdisk and an edited video.«»
«»
Over  to  the  more  important  stuff.  In the combined 4k/64k intro compo,
there  was a  rather good 4k intro and an oldskool 64k intro on the Amiga
platform.   There  also was a 64k PC entry.  Last, but certainly not least,
there  were  4  Amiga  demos.  None were brilliant, but they were more than
good  enough  to  enjoy.  I'll write more about the Amiga entries below.  I
also have to mention that more productions were worked on during the party,
but unfortunately they didn't get finished in time.«»
«»
«c4»The productions«»
«c2»«»
The combined Amiga/PC 4k/64k intro compo.«»
«»
I'll only write a few words about the Amiga entries.«»
«»
«c5»1.  89 Style Cracktro by Natrox«»
«c2»«»
This  is  just  a small "64k intro", in the style of the cracktros.  If you
remember  the typical oldskool cracktros, you can also imagine how this one
was.   It  had  some  cool  light  effect,  some  scrolltext  and  "Natrox"
displayed.   Not  much more to say about it, it ended last in the compo.  I
just  have to mention that behind the Natrox label, some famous Swedes
from another group is hiding.  Perhaps you've noticed that this group did a
fix of Tulou's Carbon demo earlier?«»
«»
«c5»2.  Finnmark by Ephidrena«»
«c2»«»
This  4k intro starts off with some nice sound-effects.  We then get to see
the  Ephidrena  logo  over a blinking "snow-screen".  The music changes and
we're  suddenly  up  in  the  clouds.  We're moving slowly in these greyish
clouds, and we see some light-effects as well.  Then the title of the intro
"Finnmark"  is  shown  above  the  clouds,  and at the same time the screen
changes  colours to green.  Next the greyscales are back, and we're suddenly
moving  in  a  mountain-like environment.  It's like we're zooming away from
the  mountains,  we  move  forwards  while  the screen is blinking/changing
between  greyish  and  greenish colours.  Afterwards we're up in the clouds
again,  and  "Solskogen"  is  displayed,  while the screen changes colours.
Then  we  go  down  to  the  mountain  landscape  again, and we move faster
forwards  now.   The screen is blinking while the colours are changing.  At
the end it's just snow again!«»
«»
All  in  all,  this  is  a  rather good 4k intro from a group known to have
delivered  lots  of  quality intros in the past.  The intro got really nice
music  timed  to  the  various  effects/changes,  and  the  "stripe"-effect
overlaying the screen makes it even more interesting.  No need to say
it  won  the compo.  The intro could perhaps be looked upon as your tourist
guide  to  the  most  remote  Norwegian county far in the north.  The intro
should work on most Amiga's.«»
«»
«c4»The Amiga Demo competition«»
«c5»«»
1. Democratic By Nature«»
«c2»«»
The demoshow got started by the latest demo from this famous Swedish group.
The first  thing the watcher of this demo will notice, is a Swedish flag at the
bottom  of the right corner.  Then the music starts and a picture of a girl
surrounded  by  a  Nature  logo appears.  Afterwards we get to see a rather
nice  logo of the title of the demo.  Now this oldskool demo really starts.
A  traditional setup pops up, with a Nature logo at the top, a text-routine
in the midle and a mirror of the textlines at the bottom with a wave-effect
over  the  words.  This menu-screen disappears and the first effect appears,
it's  some  kind  of  textured-wave-effect.   When  the effect is over, the
menu-screen  appears  again.   The  menu screen appears between each of all
these  effects.   The  next  routine  is  a  twistbar,  it's  followed by a
slime-effect.  Afterwards an effect which looks a bit like expanding raster
bars  mixed  with plasma enters.  Then some kind of wave-effect appears.
Now  the  creators  decided  to  show the credits.  They are shown over the
first  effect that re-enters, on various backgrounds of ASM-One, DPaint, etc.
Quite  nice.   Then we see a picture of the cartoon-hero Dextstar, and some
transparent  stars are crossing over the picture.  Another Nature logo pops
up,  it's  a  bit  transparent  as  we  see a moving picture in it.  Then a
stress-effect   appears   (classic  Amiga   effect).   Next  up  are  some
light-bubbles  (blobs)  which  are  moving and melting together.  It's then
time  for  a  greetingsscroller,  before another cool slime-effect appears.
Afterwards another twistbar enters, and it's the end of the demo.«»
«»
This would have been a great megademo in the late 80s/beginning of the 90s.
For  those  people  that  like real oldskool, this is a cool demo.  Anyway,
there  weren't  exactly  many effects that haven't seen the light before in
this  demo,  but it's certainly a dive into the oldskool.  It came third in
the compo.  The demo works on most Amiga's.«»
«»
«c5»2. Any one of these suckers By Ephidrena«»
«c2»«»
This  is  definitely a more modern demo, or should I rather say dentro?  At
least  there  aren't very many effects, it's mostly based around one or two
main  routines.   Anyway,  the  demo  starts  off with a red-coloured brick
background,  and  something which looks a bit like a dot-object.  The title
'Any  one  of these Suckers', appear.  Then we enter this landscape formed by
lots  of  greyish  cubes.   The  name  Ephidrena  appears above a red brick
background,  and a big cube is rotating next to the logo.  We move again in
this voxel-cube landscape, some parts are really glowing/are lightened.  At
the  end, it's like the landscape is exploding.  The last routine it's like
a face-object created by dots/cubes, and next to it the credits.«»
«»
All  in  all,  a  worthy  winner  of  the competition.  Cool music and nice
effects.  However, it's more like an intro than a demo really.  I'm waiting
for the intro version, hehe...«»
«»
«»
«c5»3. Shameless By Spaceballs«»
«c2»«»
This  demo  was  actually  shown  on  a  PC  using  WinUAE  at  the  party.
Nevertheless,  the  demo starts off with many big cubes in greyscales moving
very  fast  around  the screen, melting together and getting separated.  It
moves  over  to  the  next  routine,  then  we see the Shameless logo and a
twisting  object in grey which is around it.  Afterwards it's almost like a
colourcycle,  at least something is moving fast around the screen.  Another
object  appears, we see some X with blinking and stuff.  Then a cool object
pops  out  of  a  ball-object...   it's  expanding.   At the end, 
Shameless - Spaceballs is written on the screen.  That's it.«»
«»
This was also a rather short demo which unfortunately failed to run several
times  at the party place.  Hopefully it works better on an Amiga.  It's not
the  best  Spaceballs  production  around.   But  it was at least cool that
Spaceballs  managed  to  contribute  in  addition to their organizing work.
This demo came last in the compo by the way.«»
«»
«»
«c5»4. Dance Extravaganza by Boozoholics«»
«c2»«»
This  is a fun demo, for sceners wanting to move a bit.  It starts off with
a  picture  of  a  rhino.  Don't know why, but Ephidrena also had a small rhino
picture in their demo.  Anyway, then a picture of a man appears.  Then it's
a  picture  of  a  woman.  Next is the Boozoholics logo which is moving around,
it's  really synced to the music.  We see some pictures of Slummy and Nosfe
enjoying the music, hehe.  Then we see the back of them in skirts, with the
logo  Dance Extravaganza over.  Afterwards a Boozoholics logo and more follow
with  some  nice cube-effects, and more pictures.  Then there’s even more cubes
spinning  around,  and  a Slummy picture over it.  Then there’re some light 
objects and  stuff.   All  the  time  we hear the hard rhythms of the music, and 
the blinking  between  effects  in  psychedelic colours and pictures.  A quite 
ok contribution.   It  ended second in the compo actually.  This demo was also
shown using WinUAE at the party.«»
«»
«c4»Conclusion«»
«c2»«»
Summertime  is  a  fantastic  scene  time.  There are usually lots of scene
events  all  around Europe, which is an unique opportunity to meet friends,
and  be  creative.   Usually  these  scene  parties  also  bring us lots of
productions,  so  if  you haven't already seen them, start downloading them
from for example www.scene.org now!«»
«»
«e»