ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
SOLSKOGEN 2004 PARTYREPORT«»
«»
«c3»By Zerox/Gods«»
«»«as»
«c4»Introduction«»
«c2»«»
Normally  summertime  is  partytime  in  Norway,  but  not  this year.  The
Solskogen  party  got and the Kindergarden party wasn't held before
the  middle  of  November. Therefore  I'll give  you my report of the Solskogen party held in 2004 instead.   Ah  yes,  this  article  has previously been published in German in AmigaPlus over a year ago.  As I haven't seen any report from this party or at  least  can't remember seeing it, I decided to publish my report in this issue  of the EuroChart.  Afterall, Darkhawk is responsible for the quality of this mag, not me
(«c1»yeah great, just shift responsibility there
- ED)«»
«»
«c4»The Solskogen party«»
«c2»«»
The  second edition ever of the Solskogen party took place between the 24th
to  the  27th  of  June 2004, in Ås, close to Oslo, which is located in the
east  of  Norway (close to the swedish border).  The Solskogen party is the
only  scene-party during the summer in Norway, and was organized by various
sceners   with   experience   from  parties  such  as  the  Gathering,  the
Kindergarden, the first Solskogen party and some others.«»
«»
The  Solskogen  party  was  definitely  a celebration of digital art, which
means  that  creative  persons  from  various computer platforms could show
their  skills.   There  were  sceners  from the C64 scene, Atari-scene, the
Mac-scene,  the  PC-scene,  the console scene, and of course from the Amiga
scene.  I'll naturally mostly focus on the last.«»
«»
«c4»Facilities«»
«c2»«»
The mainhall could perhaps host 100 people when considering there should be
a  table  and  a chair for everyone, but far from everyone actually brought
with them a computer.  I guess there were between 70-80 visitors all in all
at  the  Solskogen  party.  Some were present for only a few days, but most
people  were  present  for  the entire party.  The main hall was without any
doubt big enough to host this party, and the standard was quite ok.«»
«»
In  the  main hall  there was a bigscreen with an ok projector.  The
sound-equipment  was  good  too.  There wasn't any outbound internetline, so
people  present didn't have any chances to check out internet or the email.
That didn't bother anyone though, as this is not very usual at any
parties.«»
«»
At the same floor, and next to the main hall, there was a sleeping room.  But
it  was  also possible to sleep downstairs.  There was in fact lots of space
to  sleep everywhere, and at the basement it was incredible silent too.  At
this  floor  there  were  also  enough  toilets.   There  were also showers
present, to use between 12 and 15.«»
«»
The outdoor area was huge, and there were lots of space to chill out.  Just
outside there was a football field, and other areas with green grass.  There
was  naturally a chill out tent, and a barbeque.  It was possible to prepare
your  own  food,  play  football,  badminton, basket, volleyball and more.
Lots  of  people brought with them tents, and those were located around the
football field.«»
«»
However,  the  partyplace  was  quite  far away from the centre of Ås, in a
rather  deserted  place.   As there wasn't any food sold at the partyplace,
you could go rather hungry unless you knew anyone who could give you a ride
in his car down to the supermarket in the centre of the place.«»
«»
«c4»The Party«»
«c2»«»
The  Solskogen party started on Thursday the 24th with the official opening
around 14.00, and the opening ceremony later on that evening.  The first day
was mostly about meeting friends, and see who had arrived.  There were also
shown some demos at the bigscreen.«»
«»
The   next   day  people  were  working  on  productions,  watching  demos,
socializing,  drinking, having a barbeque, enjoying some acts of sports and
more.  Everything was quite relaxed.«»
«»
On  Saturday,  I  think  the famous "running with scissors" competition was
held.   You  need  both  to  be in a rather good condition, and have good
tactics  to  win, hehe...  Apart from that, there was a football tournament
with 4 teams playing.  All the action led to a few minor accidents and some
people  getting exhausted.  Some sceners understood they would never manage
to  finish their contributions either, so they gave up.  This day there was
also  a  sponsored  barbeque,  so everyone got hamburgers and meat for free,
which was rather nice.«»
«»
During  the evening the graphics compo and the music competition were held.
Naturally the  intro  and  democompetitions  got a bit delayed due to some
hardware  problems.   Anyway, during the night all the various competitions
were finished.«»
«»
The award ceremony was held the next day, and quite many people had already
left the partyplace at this time.«»
«»
To  find  out  which  productions  that  got  released  and  more,  read my
production-reviews elseshere in the EuroChart.«»
«»
«c4»Conclusion«»
«c2»«»
The  Solskogen  party  was  really successful.  There were plenty of sceners
from various countries creating a very special and relaxed atmosphere.  The
sceners  were  working  on productions, watching productions, but certainly
also  socializing both inside and outside.  There were special events, free
barbeque,  and  enjoyable  competitions.  At this party the majority of the
active  democoders were present, there were several coders from groups like
Scarab, Nature, TBL, Ephidrena, Spaceballs, Contraz, Gods, Apathy and more.
Unfortunately  there  were  "only"  4  Amiga demos and 2 intros, but that's
actually more than at the Breakpoint party last year.  In addition to that,
a  few  groups  were working on productions which didn't get finished; like
Scarab and Apathy.  You should especially look out for the very cool Scarab
demo coming your way.  Anyway, the Solskogen party was fun, forest, sun and
some rain as well.  The only negative thing I can think of was actually the
location.   I  was  missing  a food store nearby or that the organizers were
selling food at the partyplace.  Apart from that, the Solskogen party was a
very memorable party.  The best this summer.  Be there next time.«»
«»
«e»