ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
Sound and Music (Breakpoint Music Competitions Revisited)«»
«»
«c3»By Curt Cool of Depth«»
«c2»«»«as»
Well, this is actually a revival of an old idea of mine which first came along
no less than almost 11 years ago at The Party IV. I wrote an article about it
which was, I believe, published in Upstream by Balance. I must admit I haven't
bothered to dig it up, and to be frank I'm not sure it is even worth digging
up. However, the idea arose from the overall crappiness of the music 
competition at The Party IV in which the jury who selected the tunes that 
were played publicly on the party sound system, seemed solely to take into 
consideration the opinion of the general public instead of judging the tunes
upon the skill, quality and technique shown in them. After all, art can be
judged, no? This idea of "satisfying the general public" seems to have re-
emerged in the music competitions of the Mekka-Symposium, only to continue
under the Breakpoint flag. This is not general criticism of these otherwise
excellent parties, but it seems that where The Party earlier (before the
Music Compo Jury Team came into action) seemed to favour techno-tracks (as
this was so long ago, it was before words like "jungle", "bigbeat", "hard-
trance" etc. had entered but a few peoples vocabularies), the jury or person
who selects the tracks at the MS/Breakpoint parties seem to try to make sure
that a maximum number of genres are present, so that the public can't accuse
him or them of favouring a specific style, thus hoping to satisfy as much
of the public as possible. Unfortunately this results in some really
terrible tunes being selected as well as some excellent ones - but, even today,
there ought to be enough tunes to select from that all of the ten selected
ones could at least be of a certain standard. And after all, we don't see the
graphics juries only selecting the pictures with "the girl with the huge tits"
in order to please the public, do we? So, once again, eleven years later, I 
urge everyone who know they have enough musical knowledge, passion and a 
wide taste, to talk to the organizers at whatever party you're attending and
ask if you can be in the jury if such is necessary.«»
«»
But what do I mean by quality? Well, basically, I feel that the sound quality
and unlimited amount of channels that today's trackers have seem to have 
taken focus away from the music itself. It all seems to be sound, and then
you can repeat the same combination of chords or the same synth-theme again
and again. And it can even have false notes in it as long as the beat is
heavy enough. None of this requires any particular music skills, whereas it
might require some skills in the program in which the music is made. But,
probably it's the sheer amount channels and program features which helps
the most. However, is the sound really that important to the music? It would
seem to me that the music is more important than the sound of it - or as
Mark Twain said - "Wagners music is better than it sounds".«»
«»
This aside, it seems to me that although it is a pretty decent, not to forget
an original idea, with the 32k executable music competitions, they suffer 
from a lack of focus: What is the idea? To make a small tune and shove a 
replayer on it or to do plenty of generated samples? Once again, this kind
of competition favours the sound above the music it seems. At least, from 
personal experience, when I tried to participate in the OldSkool 32k executable
music competition with a ProTracker 2.3a executable module (in PT2.3a you 
can save your modules as Amiga executables, which work best on A500), the
organizer, I had to show it to in order to prove that it worked on A500, seemed 
to me as if he thought I was not doing things right - that I was supposed to be 
dealing with all this replayer and samplegenerating stuff that I know nothing 
about, instead of just making a tune and throwing a replayer on it. Well, if 
these competitions are supposed to be music competitions instead of code 
competitions, all should of course be allowed instead of having the unwritten
rules that seem to be proven by my experience. So, please, Breakpoint 
organizers, check up on the music competition rules, and, that aside, see
if you can get some Amiga scener involved in organizing the compos, eh?«»
«»
See you next year I hope!«»
«»
«e»