ecnew.font,8
«»
«c1»«ac»
Interview with Susumu Hirasawa (Japanese Musician)«»
«»
«c3»By Moly of Iksnet«»
«c2»«»«as»
(«c1»Editors Note: Ever wondered who did the new Boot Jingle for the AOS4? And why 
there were 2 music tracks by some Japanese author lying on those AOS cd’s? If 
so, read on for a very fascinating interview. This interview has been reprinted 
with permission)«»
«c2»«»
Susumu Hirasawa was born on 2nd April 1954 in Tokyo. In 1979 he made his debut 
in the world of Japanese Techno Pop, with the P-Model group, under the label of 
Warner Pioneer. The group rides the wave of the success of the Techno music, 
which in those years also influences the fashion and the design, obtaining great 
visibility above all else thanks to their innovative sound. In 1984 he discovers 
Amiga, and his activity comes to a turning point: in 1989 he begins a solo 
career, besides P-Model, focusing on the use of computer graphics during the 
concerts. Motivated by an innovating spirit and from a rising desire to interact 
mainly with the audience during his shows, he begins to widely employ Amiga both 
in the composition (by means of the midi sequencer Bars&Pipes) and in the 
generation of real time visual effects joined with the music during the show. In 
1994 all of his creative impetus convenes into the first Interactive Live Show, 
dedicated to the memory of Jay Miner (never forgotten father of Amiga) who died 
just that same year. The Interactive Live Show is an experience a lot different 
from usual concerts; more similar to a role-playing game, mixing physical 
reality with images and animations generated by a computer (they are projected 
on semi-transparent walls on the stage), immersing the artist in imaginative 
worlds where the audience decides the evolution of the history; all is managed 
by SCALA (glorious multimedia editing software) via ARexx (the language for the 
intercommunication between tasks used from AmigaOS). In twenty five years of 
musical life, with about 30 albums recorded and 10 of them solo, he has spread 
out from Techno Pop, passing through an amalgam between ethnic and electronic 
sounds, until arriving at the music inspired by the energy of the universe. 
Between his creations is music for television programs, games and above all 
soundtracks for anime manga: "Berserk", of Kentaro Miura, in 1997 and the recent 
animated movie "Millennium Actress", of Satoshi Kon, distributed with an 
enormous success in America by Dreamworks and winner of numerous prizes all over 
the world. A long and ardeous journey, among technology and tradition, in which 
past and future are merged into the present; with Amiga as a fellow traveller: a 
creative instrument but also a source of inspiration.«»
«c1»«»
«c4»Q. «c2»In Italy you are known principally for the soundtrack of the "Berserk" anime, 
and since we know that the music shouldn't have any barriers, is that only a 
matter of too little publicity?«»
«c2»«»
«c5»A. «c2»The biggest problem might be the channel of distribution. I had contact with 
an European label through a coordinator before, but the response from them 
wasn't good. According to a certain British label, the cause seems to be me 
singing in Japanese. And also my music has a problem of not finding the 
appropriate label easily because the genre division is difficult.«»
«»
I always have a plan to export my music to foreign countries. However, actually 
people in foreign countries who know my work through anime or games usually get 
my music by downloading or buying CDs from the TESLAKITE label site. Or they 
also get CDs from the shop in Japan that takes the order from foreign
countries.«»
«c1»«»
«c4»Q. «c2»When will your next concert take place, maybe one of your famous "Interactive 
Live Shows", in Italy or anywhere else in Europe?«»
«c2»«»
«c5»A. «c2»Since the Interactive Live Show forces long-term work on a lot of staff, 
especially for the Amiga supporting team, we can only hold it once every two 
years.«»
«»
I held the show called LIMBO-54 in 2003 so that the next one will be in 2005. 
I'm afraid that a concert in Europe is very difficult at present because of two 
problems: one is the cost and another is that I am not well-known in Europe. 
Furthermore, there is the third hidden problem which is probably familiar for 
you: My Amiga gets in a bad mood after being transported.«»
«c1»«»
«c4»Q. «c2»(A million dollar question) Where do you draw the principal inspiration for 
your compositions? Are there moments in which the inspiration flies into you and 
then starts to work on the musician? Lately we often hear songs created more by 
marketing than by inspiration, how do you judge this phenomenon?«»
«c2»«»
«c5»A. «c2»Everything can be sources of the inspiration for me. Reading books, listening 
to traditional Japanese storytelling, an exchange with a transsexual in Thailand 
and various events that happen in the world always stimulate me. I usually make 
the key words immediately to relive the inspiration obtained from such 
stimulation. The sense revives in me when I receive the inspiration by recalling 
the key words. When I make my music, I call the inspiration that has already 
been obtained by these key words. Sometimes these key words might become the 
titles of my song as it is.«»
«»
Too much of the music industry had to keep making music as the industrial 
merchandise required heavy consumption to maintain its structure. People miss 
the chance to meet the music that we can feel is really good because inferior 
music overflows around us by forced marketing that has a lot of monetary power. 
As a result people's sensibility to music has become poor and the huge music 
industry seems not to have noticed it yet - the fact weakens the market. The 
music industry in Japan keeps declining. Several years ago, they said the reason 
why CD doesn't sell was this: all young people buy mobile phones, and there is 
no money to buy a CD after that. And recently they say: Everyone buys imported 
CD's with a lower price. They have never reflected on the "quality" of the 
industrial merchandise they produce. They are ignorant about the "culture" of 
music and also not interested in it.«»
«c1»«»
«c4»Q. «c2»For a long time everyone has spoken a lot about the musical piracy associated 
with the new digital media, like mp3s, that supposedly makes people download the 
music from internet illegally. What do you, who have lately focused a lot on the 
digital ways of selling your music think of this?«»
«c2»«»
«c5»A. «c2»I am doubtful as to the claim that the copyright infringement increases by 
music being digitalized. Before the Internet spread out, we recorded music which 
insisted on that copyright from FM radio etc, then exchanged them with each 
other. And also we have copied CDs records which we bought and exchanged them 
often to eachother. Moreover, the listener who gets the copy and thinks that the 
music is really good, will come to want its original sound source even if he has 
to pay money. A lot of people actually did so. It seems that the opinion that 
copyright is infringed by music being digitalized reflects the fear of the music 
industry loosing their position if music will not need the current distribution 
structure. Or, it can be seen like propaganda from their side; they desire to 
control all the music even including the music on the Internet.«»
«c1»«»
«c4»Q. «c2»How much has Amiga influenced for your work? And how much does it influence 
now?«»
«c2»«»
«c5»A. «c2»Amiga is necessary and indispensable for my activity. From the actual 
composition to the Interactive Live Show, nothing can be done without an Amig«c5»A. «c2»
I now have three A4000, one A1200 and two A600 but all machines are unstable. 
The most unstable one is the newest A4000 Power tower that I bought last year. 
Since I bought the first A1000 in the mid 80's, I have wasted lots of time 
dealing with machine trouble. Therefore, I tried to change to PC many times but 
eventually I reach a conclusion that Amiga works faster than PC even if there is 
loss of time because of the troubleshooting. SCALA accomplishes the key role in 
the Interactive Live Show, although, I did experience interrupting the show 
because of trouble with the machine. I tried the PC version of SCALA on the show 
in 2003, but finally I realised many things could still only be done by the 
Amiga, afterwards I used Amiga for everything again. I use BarsnPipes (the so-
called Alfred version) for my composition. I've been using Bars & Pipes from the 
first version, though I still don't feel it is too old as a sequencer. I think 
it is an excellent and sophisticated piece of software. I wish to express my 
gratitude to Mr. Alfred Faust who made BarsnPipes into something usable with 
ease. Amiga is a practical tool for me, and its originality had a big influence 
on my activity. By touching this strange machine and software that achieved 
things in a peculiar way, I learnt even if it seems like "it is not sure that it 
can do this", "it becomes it is able to do this, if the conception is changed".«»
«»
If I was not an Amiga user, I would have thought doing the Interactive Live show 
was impossible, and I wouldn't have even proposed it. What I learnt from Amiga 
is "Search for a strange exit before you give up".«»
«c1»«»
«c4»Q. «c2»Do You know the present developments that loom on the horizon? What do you 
think about the new AmigaONE and the forthcoming AmigaOS4? And about MorphOS and 
Pegasos?«»
«c2»«»
«c5»A. «c2»Yes, I know about this. But the important thing for me now me is whether 
BarsnPipes and SCALA work well on those new generation Amiga's. How about that?
I am wishing that a lot of crazy third parties would appear, like in the old 
times to appear, and spread the excitement and the feeling that the impossible 
becomes possible. Something like a large revolution like the Video
Toaster.«»
«c1»«»
«c4»Q. «c2»Will you still support the Amiga in the future, if a better future will come? 
And which music software would you want to see on Amiga?«»
«c2»«»
«c5»A. «c2»Of course, I will keep supporting Amiga in the future. And I am wishing for 
the appearance of the DAW software that exceeds Bars & Pipes.«»
«c1»«»
«c4»Q. «c2»On the 10th november 2001 you held a concert, inspired by your opera "Solar 
Ray", solely with the help of solar energy. You never cease to amaze, do you? 
Are you working on something like this for 2004? Or will you get a bit of 
healthy rest?«»
«c2»«»
«c5»A. «c2»I am participating in the two projects related to anime in 2004. Both will be 
exported to foreign countries and one is familiar also for you in Italy but I 
cannot tell you in detail about that now. Another one is a sound track of a TV 
series directed by Satoshi Kon who has been awarded a lot of prizes all over the 
world. I am writing the sound track CD now. I am planning a non-Interactive Live 
Show for October. This is scheduled to only take place in Tokyo. My listeners 
who are getting used to seeing my strange live-shows might be surprised to see 
this live in an ordinary way. Unfortunately, I will not have enough of a holiday 
even in 2004.«»
«c1»«»
«c4»Q. «c2»Well! the whole Ikir Sector staff thanks you again for your kindness! Would 
you like to give a greeting to all IkSnet's members and those who don’t know 
you?«»
«c2»«»
«c5»A. «c2»It is a big surprise for me that I could meet you living in far Italy through 
the Amig«c5»A. «c2»I will remember you whenever I power on the Amiga from now. Let's 
support this strange, original machine for a long time together. Thank you very 
much!«»
«»
Article by Moly of www.iksnet.it, re-used with permission by the Official 
Eurochart (www.eurochart.dk).«»
«»
Susumu Hirasawa homepage: «c3»http://s-hirasawa.com/e/«»
«»
«e»