ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
THE EUROCHART AWARD«»
«»
«c3»By Zerox of Gods«»
«c2»«»«as»
In every issue of the EuroChart we hand out our prestigious award to a very
special scener or special sceners, and this issue is no exception.«»
«»
To get the EC Award a certain scener has to have worked a very long time to
give  other sceners pleasure out of his work.  He has to have produced some
kind  of  quality  productions  over  a  certain  period  of  time and done
something  special  for  the  Amiga-community.   To  get  the EC Award this
special  scener  also  has had to influence the scene in some way with his
efforts  to  provide productions or contributions.  Everyone that have done
something  very  special  can get this honourable award.  He can for example
have  produced  demos that have set new standards, brought new ideas to the
scene  like  setting up online scene-areas at internet, shown stunning new
pictures,  composed  amazing  music, organised very special scene events or
made  productions  come true with a will to never give up and a willingness
to  provide  something fantastic or simply given the scene something we all
appreciate very much.«»
«»
To  judge  and  decide who will get this prestigious and honourable award, the
jury  consisting of Darkhawk and Zerox will in each issue evaluate the work
of a lot of sceners and bring forth the results here in the EuroChart.«»
«»
This  time  the  jury has given the award to two very active sceners, who
have  given  contributions  in  the  form of various productions and ideas.
They  have  created  LOTS of quality demos, intros and musicdisks for their
group.   The  demos  and intros have done very well at the most prestigious
scene parties around.  They both choose code as an artform, and became very
good at it.«»
«»
The  reason  why  we  have  chosen  to give this prestigious award to these
sceners,  is  that they have successfully brought the scene so many stunning
productions  during  many, many years.  The quality seems to increase all the
time.   We  don't  even  have  to  mention their last two great productions
released at the Breakpoint 2005 party.«»
«»
There  can  be  no  doubt that the winners of the EC award of issue 48, are
Blueberry and Psycho.«»
«»
Congratulations  goes to  Blueberry  and Psycho for all the work they have
done for the scene the latest 10 years.  May they stay active years to come
with  the willingness to provide great demonstrations.  With this award they
get only appreciation, pride and honour...«»
«»
In  the  next issue of the EuroChart a new winner will be announced...  who
knows...  it might just be YOU!«»
«»
«e»