ecnew.font,8
«»
«c1»«ac»
The Geriatric Scene«»
«»
«c3»By Curt Cool of Depth«»
«c2»«»«as»
It seems by now that most members and ex-members (of which there are quite a few 
more than the aforementioned) of our beloved Amiga scene are at least pushing 
30, thinking about having kids, marriage(s), jobs, houses and basically all the 
earthly goods that human beings under the Western hemisphere seem to first 
spend/waste a lot of time/money on getting, and then spend/waste a lot more time 
on actually using them. This is not, from the view of the general public, 
necessarily a bad thing - in fact many politicians believe that the core of our 
very society should be build on people doing just that - believe it or
not.«»
«»
However, from the view of our underground, sub cultural society, all this 
seriousness regarding the obtaining of money, social status etc. etc. causes 
peoples attention to flicker away from the scene and over to the so-called
real world (whatever that may be, considering that most people work with 
computers these days). So, the Amiga scene seems pretty small these days, at 
least the part of it actually doing something - so - is the Amiga scene finally, 
really and truly dying? The answer is of course: No. It is merely sleeping. 
Because there comes a time when the aforementioned kids have moved away from 
home, the wife has become old and ugly, the man has become impotent (at least 
when with the wife), the hair has become grey and so, like it usually happens to 
the "grey gold", the job has been phased out - like an old Amiga model. And so 
comes the time where the sleeping sceners will arise from their sofas and chairs 
and dig out their old Amigas in order to once again code, draw and track. The 
young kids will look at them in a surprised manner as the geriatrics use DPaint 
and ProTracker 2.3 on an old cathode beam screen, and shudder with disbelief as 
the oldies look fascinated at a simple line-vector-cube - considering this is a 
time where the matchbox-sized hologram projectors can simulate anything you can 
see in real-life so perfectly that the human eye is unable to spot the 
difference, with sound so pure and so sounding as if it came from the hologram 
that it is impossible to tell the difference here too.«»
«»
However, it is also the time of greater Windows failures, bugs, viruses etc. 
etc. than seen ever before, but that is a wholly different matter. Microsoft 
will rule the world and non-Microsoft-users will be prosecuted or alternatively 
just shot - sceners will be a rare species under threat. No wait...«»
«»
The themes of the demos we do will no doubt change: Death-demos will get a whole 
new meaning. Darkhawk will no doubt want the old Amiga-logo carved into his 
gravestone («c1»no doubt - ED)«c2». I will no doubt reach past chiptune no. 1000, possibly reach no. 
1001 then unexpectedly drop dead. Magic will become very old. TBL will still 
release big, vector-heavy demos, though the themes will no doubt change - titles 
could be "Rheumatism", "Arthritis", "Liver-spot-starfield", "Gout", "Lumbago 
Operation" and, a personal favourite of mine, "Everything Was Better and Kids 
Were Nicer In the Old Days". Also, at this time, no one of our age will play 
computer games, since there will always be at least one (but probably several 
million) fat 14-year-old kid(s) who can beat the shit out of us in any computer 
game. Demoparties will need wheelchair support and elevators, as well as access 
to heart-starting electro-shock equipment. A big problem will be people mixing 
up each others false teeth, only to find out it's not theirs when putting it 
into the mouth. Younger sceners will be beaten with sticks, if they don't act 
with the proper respect.«»
«»
Etc.«»
«»
And then the scene will eventually die. R.I.P.«»
«»
«e»