ecsmall.font,6
«»
«c1»«ac»
THE SCENE«»
«»
«c3»By Davide Pappalardo«»
«c1»«»«as»
Editors Note: This is a huge, translated thesis about the scene that we have 
been allowed to publish exclusively for the EC, and we give it to you as is. It 
contains a lot of thoughts and data, and we hope you enjoy it. Be advised 
however that this is a long article - go make yourself a cup of hot coffee or 
chocolate first :)«»
«c2»«»
IMPORTANT:«»
«»
1) This work is the result of the profound love I have for the Scene, 
and to the Scene this work I bestow.«»
«»
2) This work is part of a bigger work of research I did for the 
University of Catania, Italy, and it is registered and published in 
limited edition by the University of Catania. All the copyright of this 
work is of Domenico Davide Pappalardo (me). Please feel free to 
distribute it or quote it as you please, as long as the copyright is not 
infringed and as long as the document is not modified.«»
«»
3) This work is a translation from academic Italian I did of the original 
paper. I am not fluent in written English as I used to be a couple of 
years ago, when I lived and worked in England. Consequently there 
may be many language errors in it. Please understand this. If you feel 
like signalling me of a language error, please feel free to do it. Any 
report of a language error will be appreciated, and it will contribute to 
the document itself. Of course, Italian text is available as well.«»
«»
4) Because this was written as a scientific essay, the first paragraphs of 
it serve as introduction and lay out a background. They may therefore 
result slightly boring or "indigestible." Those who want tasty meat may find 
more enjoyable to start from paragraph 5, or to hop casually here and 
there around the text. Serve as you please, gentlemen!«»
«»
5) It did cost a lot of effort to me to write this paper, and more effort to 
translate it. Any comment on its content or on the ideas contained in it 
will be highly appreciated, but I will not accept flames or 
provocations. If you have a criticism or a disapproval on something or 
whatever and you want to express it, please do it in plain form and I 
will be very happy to consider it.«»
«»
6) The analysis was written two years ago, in 2002, but I did all my 
best to keep it up-to-date, and I will in the future, adding sections or 
modifying parts if necessary.«»
«»
7) Last but not least: I did this writing on the Scene because I think 
that the Scene is a true form of art, a very bright one, superior to many 
other "official" and more famous ones. I did my best to prove it, and I 
wish that my work can contribute to the Scene's life, and success.«»
«»
Let us carry on, wayward children!«»
«»
Catania, August 2004«»
Davide Pappalardo«»
deadpoet@tin.it«»
«»
§1. Introduction«»
§2. Foreword: The Diffusion of Popular Electronics«»
§3. The Scene«»
§4. The Scene and Its Art: The Result of a Neurosis?«»
§5. State of the Art«»
§6. 9 Fingers«»
§7. Destination Unknown«»
§8. Principles of Demo Spirit«»
§9. We Have Explosives!«»
§10. The Music of the Scene«»
§11. Relish«»
§12. Horror«»
§13. The Product«»
§14. Short-term Conclusions«»
«»
        notes«»
        «»
        version history and to-do list«»
        a small note on the author «»
«»
«»
«»
§1. INTRODUCTION«»
«»
This report is meant to analyse the forms of a copious audiovisual 
artistic production issued by a contemporary subculture and by its 
artistic phalanx which identify themselves as "The Scene".«»
«»
The study will begin with a preparatory work which is essential to 
focus on the object of analysis. It will then move on an analysis of the 
artistic production of the movement with particular attention on the 
brighter examples, trying to present a clear outlook of the 
phenomenon, to outline its audiovisual syntax and to discuss the forms 
and logics of its evolution, if present. It will eventually try an aesthetic 
analysis of the phenomenon.«»
«»
The scientific or casual literature existing on the argument is very 
limited. An exception is The Demoscene and Its Cultural Artefacts by 
George Borzyskowski_1, University of Perth, West Australia, 1994. 
This study is very old (being written in 1994 and doing an analysis on 
a production going from 1987 to 1993) and the path it follows is 
sociological rather than aesthetical.«»
«»
I will therefore fully base my study on the copious literature issued by 
the movement itself in the form of articles, manifestoes, discussions, 
debates and so on easily found on a public domain circuit and on the 
internet. I will use other reference scientific literature and 
Borzyskowski's essay in a limited extent. «»
«»
«»
«»
§2. FOREWORD: THE DIFFUSION OF POPULAR ELECTRONICS«»
«»
In the beginning of the 80s in America and Europe the computers, 
devices so far regarded as complex and abstruse machines, became 
mass-market consumer goods. Marketing policies tend to promote 
computers to common people and to stress the "handy", "practical" 
qualities of the machines, useful to everyday life. The machines sold in 
the early 80s had actually very little to offer. They were not "useful" 
nor "handy", and had very little to offer as home-entertainment 
devices neither. Their capability to process information is limited and 
of difficult access, and far more limited is the power to master sound 
and image, i.e. multimedia content. They therefore are not useful or 
appealing machines, nor to everyday life, nor to working life and to the 
needs of scientific or artistic activities. Workers, scientists and artists 
therefore ignore the diffusion of mass-market consumer electronic and 
approach the new technologies and the electronic revolution in 
different and more complex ways, asking the advice of professionals 
and following different paths.«»
«»
The diffusion of popular electronics, thus notwithstanding, takes place 
very quickly, supported by the American industry and by its 
commercial and marketing power. In a couple of years the picture is 
very different:«»
«»
<<No one can forget the middle 80s period... 1984-1985! Great years! 
For 350 pounds, you could get an awesome CBM-64, with 320x200 
graphics, 8 sprites and a simple sound generator - all running off a 
cassette. If you were lucky, you could also spend another 200 pounds, 
for a disk drive, able to hold 170k on a single 5 1/4 inch disk. Well... 
17 million people bought that 6502 8-bit processor... If you didnt want 
to buy a C-64, you could also go for the 48k ZX Spectrum, with its 
"Dead-Flesh" keyboard. Laterly, CPC 464, was released but never had 
the success of Commodore machines, so the company moved on the 
emerging PC market. If you had more money to spend, you had the 
option of ATOM and BBC Micro. The competition was great, so many 
companies sold their machines. Apple ][, Oric-1, Tandy's Color 
Computer, the Mattel Console and finally the Walres Dragon 32. All 
of the computers, had very little abilities. A person who bought a 
machine, should program for it. That's how many game-programmers 
have made career. All of them were lone workers, doing the graphics, 
the music and the code._2>>«»
«»
The decade 1985-1995 can be considered as the pioneer age of 
computerisation. After 1995: the actual diffusion of computers in most 
aspects of personal and social life, the development of machines more 
and more powerful and user-friendly, the standardisation of the 
operating systems, the new-economy and the internet revolutions, 
worldwide global tele-computerisation, multimedia and ICT- sign the 
moments and the aspects of a technological and social manic 
revolution on a global scale that is this very moment in its 
development.«»
«»
Massive diffusion of information-processing devices means massive 
diffusion of devices capable of producing art. Between 1985 and 1995:«»
«»
1. Millions of people are for the first time in touch with an interactive 
multimedia device«»
«»
2. The device responds with an output, but it requires an input. That is to 
say it compels a creative process.«»
«»
3. The diffusion of pop computers takes place in peculiar ways:«»
«»
3.a Technicians and artists approach mass-market consumer electronics in 
complex and different ways, ranging from blind refusal to the 
exaggerate and manic experimentation. This experimentation employs 
means and machinery different from the ones diffusing in pop 
consumer market.«»
«»
3.b Pop computerisation takes place in a "democratic" way. Relatively low 
costs (a computer roughly costs as much as a tv-set) and the absence of 
special reasons to buy a computer makes possible a "natural" diffusion 
of the machines (= "I have a computer because I wanted it").«»
«»
3.c Costs are relatively low but not really bargain prices and the absence 
of special reasons to buy a computer result in a diffusion that, while 
"natural", is not really "popular" and widespread (= "I have a 
computer because I have to buy it because everybody has it and it is 
necessary for my working/social/entertaining life").«»
«»
3.d Distribution of computers, especially in Europe, is heterogeneous, i.e. 
computers are diffused amongst people of different countries, regions, 
social classes, wealth. But considering what said so far, a common 
base to encompass and understand the distribution of pop electronics is 
that computers in Europe are bought by people endowed with a sort of 
"moral inclination " and "poetic transport" toward them. (="I have a 
computer because I wanted it because I mean to do a lot of stuff with 
it"). These people are endowed of a similar sensibility and imagery. In 
America, on the other hand, mass-marketing and persuading 
commercial strategies make a bigger and more heterogeneous 
diffusion happen, but this is devoid of any encompassing base or 
moral. (="I have a computer because I wanted it because the ads 
persuaded me, but now I don't know what to do with it").«»
«»
In Europe in the decade 1985-1995 these facts produce a situation of 
urgent creative contingency. An underground subculture will bloom 
out of this contingency, and an annexed artistic phalanx, which is to be 
called "The Scene". A profile of the people involved in this mood can 
be sketched out:«»
«»
1. He is a young person, aged from 15 to 25. He lives in a European 
country, mostly Scandinavian or German, but also British, French, 
Polish, or Italian.«»
«»
2. He does not belong to any recognised or self-conscious artistic or 
ideological circuit. This is particularly true in Nordic countries and 
Germany, where these circuits of pop art and juvenile subculture are 
traditionally weak. In Britain, France and Italy where since the 60s pop 
expression and juvenile subcultures are of strong momentum, the 
involvement of people in this new mean and mood of expression is 
lesser. In any case it is to be noted that during the 80s the traditional 
pop subcultures undergo a period of crisis and decline.«»
«»
3. He is well educated and owns cultural and technical means and he is 
therefore capable to approach complex ways of expression.«»
«»
4. He lives in a period of cultural starvation, of cultural ennui. In 
response he is longing for expression and he burns with creative 
yearning. He is not into art as it is generally understood, moreover, he 
rejects art seeing it as abstruse (avant-gardes), dusty (traditional art), 
poor or annihilating (mass-society), dangerous or deviant (independent 
movements). Summing up, he is completely unconnected with art or 
culture and lives them as something remote.«»
«»
5. His aesthetic and diegetic imagery is mostly founded upon literary or 
cinematographic American indie subcultures of the 80s (cyberpunk, 
fantasy, avant-pop) and upon Japanese cartoons or animation of the 
same period.«»
«»
6. He sees in his personal computer an entertaining device and a mean of 
expression and a subconscious level he feels it in tune with his 
aesthetic categories, finally finding in it a powerful mean to expand 
them.«»
«»
As machines more and more powerful and capable of multimedia 
capability then astonishishng  (Atari ST, early PCs, and mostly Amiga) 
multimedia revolution took off. In 1987, at the same price of a tv-set, a 
powerful audiovisual generator can be bought, a device capable of a 
decent capability to process information and a simple, user-friendly 
operating interface. Everything was in its right place: the cultural 
contingency, the actors and the devices. Shallow European youngsters 
will give birth to a powerful underground culture and art, christened by 
the protagonists themselves "The Scene".«»
«»
The Scene will be my subject of study because it represents an 
essential experimentation within the boundaries of audiovisual art, 
which is an art blending together musical expression and icastic 
expression. This movement generated in Europe between the 80s and 
the early 90s, spontaneously springing out of the lucky contingency 
resulting out of the diffusion of popular electronics and of the cultural 
and subcultural starvation of the 80s. The Scene spontaneously 
developed, it lived a pre-artistic phase, it acquired self-conscience and 
ripeness, became conscious of its identity, issued out manifestoes, 
discussions, forums, debates, it has its gazettes and medias, it staged 
uncountable happenings and in its nearly 20 years of life it alternates 
phases of bloom and decadence in connection also with the 
technological progress that goes on in our lives. It does remain an 
underground movement, unknown to the most of people and of public 
eye, and it does remain an self-referential culture, even if in the most 
recent times its relationship with other subcultures developed a little- 
but of course, the Scene is art and the Scene is alive.«»
«»
Its artefacts are short or micro audiovisuals. I will later attempt an 
aesthetic appreciation of them, and of the movement in general. Apart 
from these artistic results (and I will anticipate now that in my opinion 
these results are present and are of value) and apart from its nature as 
an underground and self-referential movement, it is a fact that its 
experimentation represents a singular and momentous path crossing 
the pastiche of categories, genres and forms of nowadays art and 
artistic phenomena.«»
«»
«»
«»
§3. THE SCENE«» 
«»
The art of creating short or micro audiovisuals blending together 
music, image and kinetics using personal computers sprung out of the 
peculiar milieu that was my effort to sketch out in the previous 
chapter. Mostly in Scandinavia and in the belly of Europe, several 
youngsters, burning and yearning for a way out of the cultural 
stagnation and longing for soothing creative, started to use the 
machines they owned with the aim of doing something more important 
than killing the time. When the power of the machines available in the 
consumer market grew this desire became a reality. Demonstration 
programs, coded out of pure aesthetic pleasure were created. At the 
same time, groups of enthusiasts started to gather to work together on 
multimedia machines.«»
«»
In the meanwhile the phenomenon of software piracy was springing, 
i.e. the practice of producing illicit copies of a software entering an 
underground circuit or black-market in order to workaround the 
problem represented by the high costs of the software itself. He who 
mastered both enterprise (creating short multimedia demos and 
"cracking" the software in order to copy it) was he who had advanced 
(self-acquired) skills in using a computer. This was not public domain 
knowledge. Knowledge means power and prestige. Both the 
phenomena (multimedia skill and the software piracy) quickly mingled 
together and became fashionable to introduce a pirate copy of a 
software with a micro audiovisual showing the skills and the 
"signature" of the coder-pirate who cracked the software. These 
audiovisuals are the intros or cracktros.«»
«»
The groups of coders began to spoke a common language, a common 
mythology and shrouded themselves with a mysterious aura, a maudit 
conduct, phantasms from within exert their "power". This was already 
art. Soon they focused exclusively on the artistic targets and dropped 
software piracy. The main target became the production of better and 
better audiovisuals, that started to follow germinal narrative paths and 
to lose the aura of a joke to become art. The movement was referred to 
as "The Scene." The reference was to the metaphorical Stage that the 
productions entered as soon as released, "entering the Scene". Of 
course the name "The Scene" comes also out of the way English 
language has to refer to certain circuits of cultural or practical 
activities, referring for example, to the fashion-scene, the punk-scene, 
the entertainment-scene, the demo-scene and so on. Coders and 
whoever take part in the Scene is a Scener. The coding of an 
audiovisual involved musicians and graphic-specialists able to 
elaborate artistic soundtracks and scenery to the productions. They 
joined the groups of coders and created teams: now demos were not 
only coded in the right way, but looked good and sounded good. Their 
quality therefore increased. The movement started to acquired self-
conscience and do consider itself as an art movement, even if it did not 
feel, and does not seem to feel today, to promote itself or enter 
recognized and official art circuits. Manifestoes were notwithstanding 
issued, gazettes regularly published, and happenings ("parties") staged 
as places where to show the audiovisuals to others or to organise 
contests. Audiovisuals are called Demo, short for "Demonstration", 
with obvious references to the reasons they originally were coded to 
(demonstrate the skills of the coders, demonstrate the power of the 
computers).«»
«»
From the middle-80s on, the Scene lived an underground life, 
alternating bright and dull moments, but always being in life, always 
staging its parties, creating a robust circuit of gazettes and websites, 
the biggest portals being«»
«»
Orange Juice - The Demoscene Information Server         www.ojuice.net«»
Pouët.net - Your Online Demoscene Resource              www.pouet.net«»
No Error - the Scene Music News                         www.noerror.org«»
There even exists a scene-radio, Nectarine               
        broadcasting, from the web, 24/7.       
        www.scenemusic.net«»
«»
In its nearly 20 years of life, the Scene shows an amazing power and 
strength, even if sometimes it seems to fall in recurring states of 
artistic confusion, creative stagnation and to pose question about its 
identity and its roots. An outcome of these strivings are the different 
manifestoes issued from the early 90s on:«» 
«»
<<The "scene" began in the mid-1980s on the Amiga, when the computer 
was first produced. People moved across from the Commodore 64 
scene, and started making "intros" to fit on the front of discs, and it 
evolved from there._3«»
«»
<<Since the beginning of personal computers (early 80s) there are pirates 
They modify commercial software (that's cracking) to enable their 
copying. To show their talents, they signed (it's less common these 
days) their work by adding visual and sound effects at the beginning of 
the program. After some evolution, the scene was born, the main 
difference is: the demoscene has nothing more to do with pirating._4«»
«»
<<The scene is worldwide, but based in Europe. Scandinavia is one of the 
biggest sources of demos, but Germany. France, and Holland also 
produce a lot of demos. Eastern Europe (Hungary, and especially 
Poland) are an increasing source of demos, and other European 
countries such as Austria, Switzerland, England, Italy, Spain, 
Belgium.. also have a demo-'scene'. Outside Europe, countries like 
Australia and Turkey have some kind of scene, and America has 
knowledge of the scene, [...] but it is not really involved in the 
scene(there are no major American demo-crews.)_5«»
«»
<<Demos are programs created purely for art's sake, featuring impressive 
or spectacular audiovisuals. [...] Perhaps you can think of a demo as a 
music video on a computer, but with equal emphasis on the visuals, the 
music, and the code. It's something to watch, enjoy, and marvel at the 
creativity of.«»
«»
<<Demos are made because people want to construct something that 
looks good. People make demos because they want to make something 
that will be spread worldwide, seen by a lot of people, and appreciated 
by them for being skilfully designed. Demos are made for art's sake, 
and for prestige.«»
«»
<<Demos are made by various [...] users, generally organised into 
groups. These groups have names, such as Virtual Dreams, Spaceballs, 
Complex, etc, and these groups comprise a number of (more or less) 
talented members. Please note that almost all demo-makers credit 
themselves under a pseudonym, rather than their real name, e.g. 
Chaos, Fairfax, Moby..._6«»
«»
<<A group is like a firm, it has it's own name and reputation._7 «»
«»
<<Parties are regularly organized in order to gather the scene (the 
demomakers) together for several days non-stop (mostly 3 days and 2 
nights). Organized are: competition for demos, intro, modules (or ziks) 
and gfx. The biggest parties are the Assembly (Finland), The Party 
(Danemark) and The Gathering (Norway). They gather 2000 to more 
than 5000 persons! But the biggest are not the best because the 
ambiance is altered by the big number of gamers who spend their 
whole time to play games instead of participating to the demoscene. So 
the best parties are the small and medium ones. For instance the 
Breakpoint (Germany), Symphony (Poland) and State Of The Art 
(France) parties are three great meetings. There is an average of one 
party per week in the whole Europe._8«»
«»
<<Demos are an art form. They blend mathematics, programming skill, 
and creativity into something incredible to watch and listen to..._9«»
«»
<<Demos are to computers like poetry is to prose._10>>«»
«»
«»
«»
§4. THE SCENE AND ITS ART: THE RESULT OF A NEUROSIS?«»
«»
The past and the future of the Scene are a problem. In its past, the 
Scene is a pre-artistic form of expression resembling, if not being, a 
mere pastime or joke. Its future is the problematic future of a form of 
expression yet not possessing a definite identity and a solid domain.«»
«»
George Borzyskowski, in the mentioned essay (March '93), did a 
manic analysis of 743 Scene-prods, by himself taped, classified, and 
organised in a 34 hours a/v archive. His conclusions are that the Scene 
audiovisuals are a "vernacular forms of multimedia production":_11«»
«»
<<Analysis of the collected study materials has revealed a scale of 
production unanticipated at the investigations commencement. The 
743 individual examples of the genre identified, and catalogued 
together with evidence in the form of 34 hours of video recorded 
excerpts it is asserted, constitutes a significantly substantial basis for 
the recognition of a cultural phenomenon. [...]«»
«»
<<These productions have also been found to present certain 
characteristics which in combination distinguish the genre sufficiently 
from other existing kinetic audio visual media genre types to warrant 
the genre's recognition as a specific and distinct type of cultural 
artefact. These are the routines and the essentially non-narrative format 
of their presentation. Series of technical exercises as demonstrations of 
prowess and mastery of their medium of expression, though with their 
musical presentation context also involving creativity in their 
choreography therefore resulting in a type of vernacular audio visual 
art form._12>>«»
«»
Borzyskowski's verdict is indulgent when considering that the 
examples analysed by him range roughly from 1987 to 1991. A Scene 
demo basically consisted in a short audiovisual  some 10 minutes long, 
zany whilst bright in its features, often boring and of light artistic 
momentum.«»
«»
A demo lasts roughly from 5 to 12 minutes, varying from prod to prod. 
Once executed, this audiovisual shows a kaleidoscope of visuals 
rotating and dancing in sync with the music that starts right off the 
demo begins.«»
«»
Music is very different from example to example. First demos has 
crappy electronic music, not really resembling any common music 
genre. This music features different beeping melodies without any 
more complex constructions or nuances to enrich and ennoble the 
sound. Melodies are zany and ever-changing to supply to the poorness 
of the whole.«»
«»
This weak phase of the music of the Scene can be imputed to a 
momentary moment of experimentation and perplexity Sceners had to 
face at the beginning. The situation soon develops up and is followed 
by a phase of great expansion. Scene musicians start to experiment in 
every possible direction and explore every possible solutions. They 
start to approach every known music genre (pop and rock and 
electronica, classical music included) and to mould new and bright 
genres. A visit to one of the uncountable archives collecting scene 
music mods, on the internet_13, will leave everybody astonished, so 
huge and varied is the number of tunes composed and stored. Hyper-
invention to supply poor quality is at this point still a distinctive 
feature of the music of the scene.«»
«»
In the beginning of the 90s the music of the Scene eventually starts to 
be more rich and more mature. Scene musicians line up to a ripest 
moulding of electro-prog music, whilst not completely dropping the 
odd zany rock and pop tune. Crappy electronic (with no rythmic 
scansion) and zany classic tunes are dropped. A sound drum and bass 
rhythmic scansion is at this point present. Scene musicians seem to 
prefer arty-rock or electronica, working on the less common or bizarre 
genres: epic; trance, ambient, cosmic; electro-pop; heavy rhythmic 
genres like techno, house, garage- the map is complex, electronic 
music (a ripe, well moulded electronica) remaining the main base. The 
composition of better tunes is sided of course with a copious 
production of mere soundtrack muzaks, i.e. tunes merely composed to 
couple to the visual without any real value of its own.«»
«»
The music of the Scene is a self-ruled domain. Mods are composed for 
the demos and live within the Scene anyway. No attempt at artistic 
liaisons with rock or pop or mainstream music anyway are looked for. 
The evolution of the music of the scene does not moreover discard the 
peculiar characters that were present since the beginning and that still 
are features distinctive of this kind of music: zaniness and a manic 
tendency to ever-changing melodies, weak architecture, and the 
aforesaid tendency to sink into "muzak" with no attention at a greater 
artistic attain.«»
«»
The visuals of a demo are, as music is, very heterogeneous. Icastic 
counterpart is the most immediate element of a demo and is the most 
ambitious ground on which Sceners do compete as usually the graphic 
counterpart is the most complex aspect of the coding of a demo. 
Graphic aspect is moreover the most immediate and usually the 
brightest aspect of a Scene audiovisual. Nature of the visuals present 
on a demo varies on a great extent depending from example to 
example. There are of course common features and the real nature of 
the visuals of a demo seems to the their dazzling and amazing aspect. 
The objects commonly to be found in a demo are kaleidoscopes, 
spirographs, stars, flashes, lights, bouncing balls, rotating tunnels, 
vortex, oscilloscopes and spectrum analysers, strobes- a long and long 
list of every tinsel mind could think of. And all these fireworks do 
dance and change in sync with the aforesaid zany sounds.«»
«»
More complex objects were gradually introduced: geometric objects, 
solids, starships, landscapes, sketched cities. Even more complexity is 
added by morphings, dislocations and similar effects (e.g. a star 
morphs into a starship and then shrinks into a point. Beside this kinetic 
visuals, static visuals appears now and then. These are oriented to 
graphic naturalism and are inspired by cultures such as heroic fantasy, 
cyperpunk, dark and similar. Narrative fragments are sometimes 
present.«»
«»
A third distinctive feature of a demo is the presence of text, presented 
in every imaginable and amazing form. Are part of the text the group 
logo, the name of the Sceners who coded the demo, credits, even 
messages, greetings and insults (!) to other competitors Sceners. These 
are of course intended for the Scene circuit. Once a demo enters the 
Scene, it is supposed that other Sceners will watch and judge the prod. 
In the text, narrative and lyrical fragments are sometimes present.«»
«»
To sum up: the "vernacular forms of multimedia production" 
Borzyskowski spoke of consisted in an audiovisual choreography 
presenting a quick and zany visuals in sync with quick and zany 
electronic music.«»
«»
It is indeed correct to define these audiovisuals "vernacular forms of 
multimedia production." In their deepest soul they are just a joke, a 
jest with very little to express. There are not narrative, symbolic, 
evocative dimensions. Choreography, architecture of the ensemble, 
music and graphics are gross. There really is little apart a neurotic 
series of effects.«»
«»
Brightest demos are notwithstanding very appealing and very 
fascinating.«»
«»
While their aesthetic status is questionable, their syntactical and formal 
peculiarity permits to devise these audiovisuals as a specific and 
distinct cultural artefact, endowed with an own identity and singularly 
different from any other existent audiovisual production. The 
embroidery of text, graphics, odd objects, cryptic references, the moist 
and obscure punk culture laying in the background, its mythology, its 
eerie and mysterious atmospheres- all this makes a demo a fascinating 
and unique object.«»
«»
In an article entitled Principles of Demo Spirit, published on the web, a 
German Scener, Tim Juretski (aka: Skandor of Xperience), opens a 
debate on the ultimate nature of the demos. Aim of this interrogation is 
a historical-aesthetical report in order to discover the real "spirit" of a 
demo, that "good old spirit" the Sceners nowadays refer to when they 
had to overcome difficult creative moments. Referring to these good 
oldschool demos of the 80s, Skandor pays homage to them christening 
the "Classic Demos" and devise in them the features that he would say 
peculiar to this specific artistic object. Describing Classic Demos 
Skandor writes:«»
«»
<<Fade in effect - show it for a few seconds - fade it out again: This is 
the basic storyboard of classic demos and this is what made them a 
huge success story. Demo coders have been developing a surprisingly 
broad range of graphic effects; many of which have been introduced 
really by the scene, not by computer scientists or professional software 
writers. But does every effect automatically qualify for being part of a 
classic demo? No, Sir. In general, an effect is only considered a classic 
demo effect if it shows something nice and runs with full frame rate, 
e.g. at 50/75 frames a second. This is why early 3D effects often were 
accompanied by reduced resolution and/or time lags caused by 
precalculation. Summing up: Classic demo authors concentrate on 
speed, speed, and speed of their routines..._14>>«»
«»
Classic Demos, even if they posses scarce artistic value, seems to be 
the starting point for every subsequent consideration concerning the 
Scene. Classic demos seem to enclose that mysterious spirit and 
quality which is responsible of the charm of this artistic form. This 
also would explain the halo that seems to spring out of them and the 
affection many "modern" Sceners seem to have to them.«»
«»
Dissection of a Classic Demo will lead to the discovering that there are 
three ultimate facet of their being.«»
«»
1.The breath-taking aspect. The mastery, which not necessarily means 
fireworks, of the audio-visual-kinetic ensemble. This mastery is close 
to the concept of "code". The concept of code, whilst being nowadays 
common if software creation (coders crafts software) posses in the 
scene a most complex semantic. Code is the technical mastery of the 
demo writer and code is the artistic result he finally attains. The code 
of a demo must be "close to the edge": on the verge of the powers of 
the system he's working on, on the verge of the velocity, on the verge 
of aesthetic witticism. Good code, for a Scener, is the demo Hardwired 
by Crionics (1991): a cube quickly rotating which gradually atomises 
whilst its particles madly twist and dance on the screen eventually 
compose in to a writing stating the title of the demo. This is good code. 
This is not only graphic. This is kinetic and, most of all, this is 
mathematic, this is art reduced and crafted into code by the coder. The 
concept of code, while being at the base of a demo, seems to be of 
difficult definition, being himself "close to the edge": its is on the 
verge of mathematics, of art, of graphic, of expression, of aesthetic. A 
coder is a wizard an artist and a scientist at the same time. A good 
code must show thing no one else had been able to show, a good code 
must bring the computer it is running on to its theoretic limit and has 
to be aesthetically wit.«»
«»
2. Aesthetic appeal of music, the poetic and evocative value of the 
sounds, their capacity to enter in living sync with the rest and to dictate 
choreographies value.«»
«»
3. Aesthetic appeal of the visuals, of their beauty, of their value as 
symbolic or evocative or narrative signs.«»
«»
Code, music and image are the three facets of a demo, in their glowing 
bosom sleeping the ultimate nature of a demo.«»
«»
To devise the ultimate nature of a demo in the single concept of 
aesthetic extremism, of audiovisual witticism really is a fascinating 
theory. A short-circuit agent, an overload of sensorial stimulation: a 
demo must produce an information overload, a sensorial overload, a 
short-circuit right in front of your face, of your eyes, of your hears, of 
your eyes, conveyed by sounds, images, kinesis and texts shot on the 
verge of tolerance, both of the machine executing the demo and of the 
viewer watching it. These considerations permit a comparison between 
the Scene and a culture to which the scene is akin: cyberpunk.«»
«»
The ravings, the pain, the frenzy caused by the information overload 
and the sensorial overload are an important aesthetic category of 
cyberpunk culture. This overload leads to the aesthetic and moral 
pleasure the individual is looking for. The engineered blast of a 
mediatic-sensorial vortex actually means the mastery and the life 
within the self of the elements that are unleashed. These elements 
(sounds, images, texts) are on the contrary in the "outside" world wild 
and are usually nonsensically imposed by an acephalous superstructure 
(mass society) on the individual. 
To yet return on the demos, the relationship that in these early scene 
production moulds musical expression to icastic expression seems to 
be weak. There seems not to be any deep relationship mingling them 
together apart from an elementary sync between them, a basic "we'll 
sync the music and demo only to change between scenes."_15  No 
structural relationship is established, nor evocative, nor symbolic. 
There is no generative bound (images does not generate music nor vice 
versa); no subjugation (music is not a mere soundscape of what we 
see, nor image is an appendix to what we hear).«»
«»
A sort of deep liaison seems yet to exist, as it is not possible to 
imagine a Demo as visuals without music or as music without visuals. 
A demo with dull music is a dull demo tout court. Image is necessary 
to music and vice versa, because there do exist some background 
rhythms, choreographic scenarios to respect. This choreographic link 
and a sort of elementary stimulus between them (music helps the 
graphics and the graphics helps the music to develop) seem to be the 
sort of liaisons that establish in a demo between the visuals and the 
music.«» 
«»
Sign of the weak link between music and image in the early Scene is 
the constant issue of productions consisting only of music 
(musicdisks) and production consisting only of still pictures 
(slideshows), even if it is to be stress the subsidiary nature of these 
productions (did as an experimentation, as a production of sounds and 
icons to use later and so on).«»
«»
A deeper liaison establish when image becomes visualisation of the 
music. This happens by means of an oscilloscope, a spectrum analyser, 
a strobo, usually presented as kaleidoscopes beating the screen. A 
musical show is produced where the image/colour visualise 
rhythm/melody. Musical kaleidoscopes, visual ones (they beat music) 
or non-visual ones (they randomly change), do produce cute basic 
graphic effects. This relationship (music-kaleidoscope) seems to 
express a basilar and deep link existing between music and image- we 
can mention the psychedelic light-show of the 60s and the 70s, and 
modern dancefloor flares. By the way, it can be mentioned how 
nowadays the most part of music players, both stand-alone and 
software, can visualise music on kaleidoscopes. It is for sure that 
demos, artefact presenting a discrete and studied choreography are 
better than any kaleidoscope, visual or non-visual.«»
«»
But cute as it can get the artistic value of such demos is not more than 
a jest, a joke, a pastime. After long sociological interrogation on the 
reasons why demos are made (considering that coding a demo is hard 
work, time-consuming and requiring teamwork and energies) 
Borzyskowski concludes that the work of the sceners is a pseudo-
artistic response to a neurosis:«»
«»
<<Maslow's writings on the subject of self-actualisation and creativity 
provide within the parameters of this study the most satisfactory 
answer [...]. In his book (Maslow A.H., The Farther Reaches of 
Human Nature (1971), Penguin, 1978) Maslow debates the question of 
intrinsic values in human nature. He postulates that creativeness is an 
intrinsic characteristic of humanity. His main thesis concerns the 
holistic nature of the person and the ill effects on well being or 
metapathologies which occur as a result of the denial of opportunity 
for the actualisation of such intrinsic traits. [...] Self actualising 
individuals he points out are dedicated people devoted to some task or 
vocation "outside themselves". They have a passion and profound 
feeling for their work. [i.e. metamotivations].«»
«»
[...]«»
«»
<<It is a conclusion of the present study [writes Borzyskowski] that a 
human pre-disposition to self actualisation in the terms which Maslow 
postulates, substantially provides a plausible hypothesis regarding the 
underlying motivation for the frequently long and sustained 
cooperative effort required for demo production. It seems that the 
technological capability of the computer and the camaraderie of peers, 
provides the opportunity for self actualisation to occur._16>>«»
«»
Demos would therefore be a gross jest in response to a neurosis caused 
by a cultural starvation. I don't agree with this position but it is 
unquestionable, as I said before, that the Scene sprung out of the 
cultural starvation of the 80s encountering the coeval diffusion of pop 
electronics.«»
«»
It is unquestionable too their status of discrete audiovisual artefacts. 
What it is still to discuss is their evolution and their artistic
attain.«»
«»
«»
«»
§5. STATE OF THE ART«»
«»
Christmas 1992. Whilst in Australia Borzyskowski pronounced his 
final verdict on the Scene, thousand miles away, in Denmark, in the 
heart of Scene battleground, the Party-II, Paul Endresen, a Norwegian 
boy, inserted a disk in a computer and shook the Scene upside down:«»
«»
<<How can a kid get into a party and turn the scene upside down with a 
demo? [...]. No wonder it's a classic, a trend setter. [...] See where it 
all started.«»
«»
<<It was very innovative.[...] See what you could see back then in 1992. 
There are no demos, such well designed nowdays [...]«»
«»
<<This demo trully changed the scene, ushered in the golden age [...] 
Ah, those were the days... [...]«»
«»
<<This was the first demo I could show to my [...] friends and get a [...] 
reaction. [Other demos] had some nice effects, but [they] had been 
done before. State of the Art did something completely original [...] 
and  they did it with [...] excellent music and near perfect design. This 
demo changed the scene._17>>«»
«»
These comments of enthusiasts are on the internet and they describe 
the general mood of enthusiasm and excitement State of the Art raised 
as soon as, at the Party-II, it entered the Scene. Behind this demo, 
apart from Paul Endresen, there was a group of artists from a small 
Norwegian town, Halden: they were the Spaceballs.«»
«»
<<All began in the far 1989, while the [...] Scene was rising toward his 
best years, a teenager with his Amiga decided to spend his efforts to 
start the genesis of one of the major groups that signed the history of 
the Scene. After several internal mystical conflicts a name for the 
group was decided: SPACEBALLS [...] and due the fact that he was 
the only member he choose for him self the name of: Dark Helmet. 
The second to follow was a young boy, a 15 years old child. The one! 
The coder that was able to "marvel" the mass of Sceners and 
consecrated himself for several years to hang up high in the charts.... 
he was: "Lone Starr" author of production like Spasmolytic or 9 
Fingers. Later-on followed other people all from the same city Halden 
[...]._18>>«»
«»
Actually these kids from Halden, legend apart, till State of the Art did 
not produce anything special. Their productions, even those more 
acclaimed, are anything else than Classic Demos. Spasmolytic, 
summer '91, and Wayfarer, ambitious prod of spring '92 are the usual 
a/v pastiche, the same jest of late 80s productions.«» 
«»
In the meanwhile from 1990 on, dynamic and symptoms of change 
started to boil within the Scene. Demo's craftwork, music and image 
mastery, preciousness and refinement of the elements constantly 
evolved. Demos started to enrich with narrative and symbolic paths: 
Desert Dream by Kefrens in a long narrative introduction shows a 
starship battle, and then rough and pretentious verses introduce the 
"classic" part of the demo. In the already mentioned Hardwired a 
similar narrative sci-fi introduction does precede the classic demo. 
Both these prods presents visuals and of music of the finest craft._19  
These demos are considered by the Sceners classics of the oldskool 
Classic Demos. Spasmolytic and Wayfarer by the Spaceballs are 
productions of a similar kind, but I would say of a lower level and of 
course are anything but a jest and a pre-artistic craftwork. There were 
no symptoms that Spaceballs would raise the Scene productions to art 
status with their State of the Art, which was released in Christmas 
1992 just six months after Wayfarer.«»
«»
What is State of the Art? An audiovisual. What does it show? No 
starships, no sci-fi rubbish, no cubes, no balls, no kaleidoscopes and 
no tinsels. From the moment the disk is inserted in to the computer and 
for the coming 10 minutes, in the magic lantern of the screen, the 
viewer can not let his eyes off the silhouette of a girl raving and 
twisting and dancing at the notes of a technopunk saraband played.«»
«»
It was something completely different. Spaceballs wipe the slate clean, 
discarding all the rubbishy paraphernalia the Scene had splashed about 
during its ten years life. The girl moving her body and her hands in a 
fascinating dance (a strange intoxicating dance, mingling together the 
charm of an Indian dance, with the spasm of a urban rave) did become 
the centre of the stream of sounds, images and code. The sensorial 
overload was mastered, it was focused on her body, it vibrated like a 
guitar string and hence it was shot on the viewer. The viewer remains 
astonished, mesmerized, dazed and confused till the final acme, when 
the music and the visuals become so loud and overwhelming to shock 
and Jannicke (this is the real name of the dancer, Jannicke Selmer 
Olsen, a Norwegian girl), she melts into a black and white strobo.«»
«»
Following the immediate and huge success of the demo within the 
Scene, in an interview published in the diskzine Raw#5 (May 1993), 
the interviewer asks Jannicke how she managed to dance in such a 
strange and frenzied and fascinating way that she herself come close to 
incarnate, to epitomise, to symbolize the real nature of the demo and of 
the Scene in general. It is the result of the fusion between the dance 
techniques I'm studying and the music the boys wanted to put in the 
demo, she says. Jannicke is a discojazz/frestyle dancer (she won a 
Norwegian championship), she likes Indian music, and she works as a 
dancer "in a musical called Pleasure Done with the dance group 
Behind The Mask"_20)- all her experience mix with the 
overwhelming technopunk tune she was asked to dance with. The 
result is State of the Art, even if she she confesses in the interview that 
the music of the demo is a bit too fast in the end.«»
«»
There is an interesting music video of the song Freestyler by Bomfunk 
MC's, released in 2001, which follows a musical and visual path 
which resembles the one evoked by State of the Art. This music video, 
following a proto-narrative path, lights a bomb of sounds and images 
which is at first deployed and lighted, then it is resolved within a zany 
narrative plot. The video is set in an underground station of Helsinki. 
A kid is waiting for its train to arrive. The aspect of the boy shows that 
he is a kid addicted to technology and to the sensorial overload of our 
hyper-technologic society. He has a very cool and modern look, he has 
a bored air and he wears huge earphone listening to music.«»
«»
In his train, the boy meets a strange guy which performs a strange 
magic on his music player, then disappears. The kid finds out that with 
his music player he can control people or things. Just like the way a 
vcr remote control controls a tape, with his player he can fast-forward, 
rewind, stop or pause people or things. Excited by this strange present, 
the boy starts to play with his new toy. Manoeuvring people and 
objects he starts to create choreographies out of persons and elevators, 
he uses it to make people dance the breakdance. Several girls start to 
perform dances just like the one Jannicke dance in State of the Art. It 
is revealing the fact that the dancers that perform in the video are from 
the Scandinavian discojazz dance group "Savage Feet" and are skilled 
in the same kind of dance Jannicke is skilled in. Anyway, to go back to 
the video, whilst the kid, sorcerer's apprentice, performs his magic, the 
guy who gave him the magic wand follows him, keeping an eye on 
him. In the end the kid rebelling again his master, set the wand against 
the guy, trying to make him dance with his remote control. But the 
wand doesn't work. The weapon set against its master doesn't work, it 
works the other way round actually. There is a big rewind-vortex and 
the kid is back at his starting point, on the underground platform, 
waiting for his tray. It was all a dream. Or not?«»
«»
State of the Art and this music video are visually and syntactically 
akin. In both a sensorial overload is provoked. In both this overload, 
once evoked, takes the form of dancing. In both, a sensation of 
aesthetic and moral pleasure arises in the viewer watching the techno-
saraband (before the final acme, when the frenzied dances do come to 
an end, eventually blowing, self-consuming and melting into a vortex). 
In these experiences the control and mastery over the mediatic 
overload takes place in a Dionysian dimension. The novelty is that this 
Dionysian experience, instead of being savage and disorderly, is 
gentle, elegant, dainty, and controlled. There's an inversion of 
direction: whilst in a Dionysian revel the path is order --> chaos (the 
order succumbing to chaos), in the cyberpunk vortex of State of the 
Art the path is chaos --> order (the chaos being mastered). Nothing is 
disorderly in the moments of Jannicke's silhouette. She is the 
supremacy of beauty and life - over disruption.«»
«»
The sensorial overload unleashed by State of the Art is total. Its syntax 
reflex in every aspect the syntax of the artistic artefact that we have so 
long referred to as "demo". I will analyse the storyboard of this 
audiovisual.«» 
«»
Once executed, the demo shows a blue background. Two flying 
objects are shown. These object are set "the side out" of the screen, 
over the imaginary box of the screen and nearer to the watcher's eyes 
(this is a trompe-l'oil device used several times in the demo). The 
watched does therefore not understand what the objects are. Then the 
evolving objects "dive into" the screen and become recognizable: they 
are two hands. Further revelation: the entire body of a girl dives into 
the screen and, whilst drums are beating, she pirouettes, she doubles 
into two girls, she dances and then she melts into black screen. This is 
a short overture. Pause. The demo's title (very big, "the side out" of 
the screen) rapidly appears and fades out in sync with a the beating of 
a drum. The artists' names quickly follows (very small, deep into the 
screen, "the side in") in a snapshot. Then appears a logo (a dragon 
with its gaping jaws) and the demo starts to load.«»
«»
From now on, Jannicke's silhouette dancing and raving at the 
technopunk music dominates the screen. The choreography is very 
accurate and pleasant. A tempest of graphic effects are thrown over 
Jannicke dancing. She is gilded with kaleidoscopes, strobes, lights. 
Her features morphs into cubes, stars, crosses, objects. She is 
destroyed, martyred. Her silhouette sinks into the chaos and stands out 
the very next frame. She is annihilated, killed by the fireworks 
crowding the screen, but she always resurges graciously dancing. She 
is moulded like clay but in the end she overcomes the Pygmalion that 
torments her- and dances. Quick digressions are present in the demo's 
storyboard. Quick big texts too rapid to be read. Other dancers' 
silhouettes (one of them bouncing on an elastic-carpet). Some 
wonderful geometric effects, a distorted rotating cuboid coming in 
different colours ("the side out of the screen, hitting the viewer's 
eyes). Then the final vortex. Jannicke's frenzied dance and the final 
melting into a strobe.«»
«»
The adherence to a demo morphology and syntax is total. All the 
elements are present: the code is close to the edge (it really was state-
of-the-art back in '92). The visuals are aesthetically extreme. Sound 
and images are at the verge of watching and listening tolerance and are 
aesthetically complicate and wit. There are all the side elements of a 
demo: the big salad which in a demo is to be eaten with the main 
course: kaleidoscopes, rotating objects, quick texts, etcetera.«»
«»
The big difference here is that this paraphernalia is not on the loose, 
the demo not consisting anymore, as a Classic Demo, in a mere 
sequence of effects pointing nowhere. In State of the Art, all the 
elements of the demo work to convey a precise artistic sensation, 
which is the goal of the audiovisual. From its beginning to its end State 
of the Art means something. It speaks to us. It is not a mere tuning up 
of the instruments anymore. The conductor is present and the orchestra 
performs a magnificent symphony.«»
«»
The texts appearing in State of the Art are to quick to be read. 
Watching them in slow-motion it is to be found out that they doesn't 
mean anything. Using dada irony, Spaceballs wrote up nonsensical 
text, then they sped it up to make it unreadable. They arouse curiosity 
and tease the watcher, they delude him and at the same time they add 
to the mystery and charm of their production. When the demo-form 
was born, text was one of its inborn elements. In a demo, the form 
requires text. But one can be a slave to the form, or master it. Instead 
of using text as flying rubbish, Spaceballs master this element of the 
demo, putting it in, negating its value (the text is nonsensical) whilst 
with its dada irony and mystery giving it a new one.«»
«»
They do the same with the others elements and effects. For example, 
when in State of the Art it is introduced the rotating cuboid effect, it is 
not merely a sparse show-off element, but it adds to the stupor of the 
viewer with its capability to hit him; it actually would have hit him 
being a concrete one, its outer vertex, placed "beyond the screen" ("the 
side off" it), would have hit him right on the face.«»
«»
Aristotle in its fundamental Poetic, states that the precious magic 
within any real work of art, any real masterpiece, is its potential to hit 
the viewer with an impression, that impression being the real soul of 
the work of art itself. Everything that does not deal with this 
impression its superfluous, it really isn't part of the work of art itself, 
or even more, it is a burden to it, a deadly tarnish. This is the so called 
"unity of impression". In State of the Art the Spaceballs achieved this 
unity of impression, evoked and orchestrated a magic melody aiming 
to convey the sense of beauty and of life. With State of the Art the 
Spaceballs revolutionized the demo-form and the Scene itself 
moulding an artefact that was no more vernacular but that was ART. 
And that ART from now on would be.«»
«»
Last considerations on this masterpiece regard the relationship that in 
it establish between icastic expression and musical expression. Music 
and image in State of the Art are finally linked, mingled together, so 
that one could not say where the music finish and the image starts and 
vice versa. The technopunk tune (composed by Travolta and entitled 
Condom Corruption) and Jannicke's dances are all one, are irrevocably 
tied together. Music and image are structurally tied: there can't be that 
dance without that music, and that music wouldn't make any sense if it 
would not be lived by that body. Music and image are generatively 
tied: Jannicke dancing is that music, and that music blowing is that 
visual tempest resolving in Jannicke.«»
«»
Spaceballs moulded music and image together, communicating with 
them the spirit of beauty and of life. There still remained work to do. 
There still was the need to make them really speak, to make them a 
symbol, to enrich them with glowing meaning. They actually did all 
this one year later, in Christmas '93 at the Party-III, with their new 
demo 9 Fingers.«»
«»
«»
«»
§6. 9 FINGERS«»
«»
In 9 Fingers a dancing Jannicke is to be seen again. So what? The 
disappointment was general, the Sceners lost enthusiasm about the 
Spaceballs and the demo was regarded as a minor piece, as a bad copy 
of State of the Art.«»
«»
9 Fingers was actually very different a piece from the previous 
Spaceballs' masterpiece. Once executed, a picture showing a 
cyberpunk face with the group name and demo title appears and the 
demo starts to load, then the show begins.«»
«»
A rotating human head is shown. A subtle cyberpunk tune starts to 
pour. The music is at the same time strong and subtle, mellow but 
thrusty, vaguely oriental but techno, morbid while drummy, and 
follows every step of the action. The head melts down and in a flash a 
dancing girl (Jannicke again) is shown. It is not her silhouette again 
being shown, but full image actually being very effected by 
posterisation and threshold effects. Jannicke clears the screen and a 
quick series of Japanese ideograms rifles the screen. This ideogram  
intermezzo (very charming indeed) recurs very often and is used as a 
means to part the scenes. More dancing girls follow whilst a series of 
effects is proposed. A girl is torn off the screen and pasted on a 
rotating cube. Zooming grids hit the images (the kaleidoscopes is 
dropped for more dry and monochromatic effects). Girls raves on the 
screen: some of them melt into spirographs, other blow into stardust. 
The demo goes on with dances and ravings. After a while, music 
grows more morbid and screen colours become warmer and dryer. 
Disquieting images stars to hit the screen. A hand is shown making a 
count with its fingers.All the fingers are counted up- 5 fingers. An 
dancer enshrouded in an Arab dress quivers a strange dance. Music 
becomes very slow and a second hand appears, counting. The second 
hand starts to count, but in the meanwhile starts to melts into lo-res 
cubicles, counting not all the fingers but just 4 fingers: 5+4 = 9 fingers, 
hence the title of the demo. The music now speeds up becoming very 
fast. A schizophrenic series of images starts a responsorial sequence: 
happy images, with Jannicke smiling and dancing- vs. disquieting 
images: little black men dancing like string-puppets; some undefined 
vines (fern? palm? Indian hemp?); more bumping puppets; an eye 
enclosed into a cube winking. The positive images tend to be 
connotated by warm and bright colours (orange, yellow, brown), the 
disquieting images tend to be connotated in cold and dark colours 
(violet, blue, dark-green). The last showdown shows an happier and 
brighter Jannicke wearing a cute, hat and tie, girlie sailor suit. She 
smiles up and touch her hat making a salute. Then she clears the 
screen, a jumping men figure is shown and the screen explodes, and 
after a flash, a list of still credits shows (over a couple of still red 
Japanese ideograms) the artists' and dancers' names (real names, not 
pseudonyms): Paul Endresen, Jannicke S. Olsen, et cetera.«»
«»
9 Fingers achieves a narrative, evocative and symbolic pregnancy. 
Sound and images are not only blended to an effect. They do own that 
deepness and that richness that makes an artwork a gem, its value and 
its reflections enriching with time. Real rich oeuvres are the one you 
could watch and read and listen to over and over again finding every 
time an accent or a nuance more.«»
«»
The narrative-symbolic path that seems to evoke the demo is to me 
like a journey into the conscience. The viewer gets inside the rotating 
head shown at the beginning. The demo, (and the viewer) dives into 
this brains, into its thoughts, dreams, fears, visions. The universe the 
demo unleashes is a dream-world, and like a dream is confused, full of 
haze, of happiness and of terror. One could feel the struggle of happy 
nuances versus dark ones. One could interpret dancing Jannicke like a 
lost memory, a far lost memory surfacing within the conscience of a 
person grasping to happy recalls.«»
«»
It can be denied: Spaceballs, maybe unconsciously, maybe without 
even wanting this, did create a symbolic path of great pregnancy and 
charm, open to everybody's interpretation.«»
«»
The grace and the preciousness of the demo is moreover perfect. The 
mastery over the demo-form is all the like perfect. One step beyond. If 
text is meaningless why not replace it with mysterious Japanese 
ideograms endowing with great symbolic value. And if the geometric 
effect have to contribute to the general unity of impression of the 
demo, why don't insert them in the main narrative path of the demo 
(the girl torn off the screen and enclosed in the rotating cube, etc.)«»
«»
Spaceballs are fine artists, endowed with grace and powerful instinct. 
Proof that they saw 9 Fingers as ART and not as a jest is that in the 
end of the demo they credit themselves with their real names, and not 
with crappy aliases. 9 Fingers is serious art.«»
«»
Even if the demo-form is a young form of art with this demos it sets 
itself free from the jesting of its origins. An eyes not used to the demo-
form and to electronic art in general may find these demos as a 
nonsense pastiche, but so were considered cubist paintings in their 
times. State of the Art and 9 Fingers are two masterpieces.«»
«»
«»
«»
§7. DESTINATION UNKNOWN«»
«»
In Easter '93, between the coding of State of the Art and the coding of 
9 Fingers, Paul Endresen's had yet the time to code another little jewel 
that can be considered as the swansong of this great artistic phase: 
Mobile, Destination Unknown.«»
«»
Mobile, Destination Unknown is a simple and charming demo. Once 
executed, the screen turns blank. A piper gently weeps. This 
mysterious and morbid piper starts embroidering mellow and charming 
melodies. In big white letters over a black screen there follows four 
statements: One man, one music; then One man, one image; then One 
man, one routine; then Quality not quantity.«»
«»
These statements are clearly a declaration of intents, an artistic 
manifesto: Spaceballs consciously drop jest in favour of ART. With 
this mini-manifest the Spaceballs witness their will to abandon the 
Classic Demo spirit of "demo for joke's sake" and testify a new "demo 
for art's sake" spirit. One man one image, one man one music, one 
man one routine, quality not quantity, i.e. "what we're doing here is 
the result of a real dedication and inspiration; we don't want to 
produce crappy jokes, we're in for real expression".«»
«»
After this overture, Mobile develops quite simply. The morbid piper 
continually blows, soon entangled in a acid-jazz tune where a sax joins 
and duets with the piper (the music is entitled Canal Green and is 
composed by Audiomonster). The visual counterpart of the music is an 
abstract landscape, where a mobile point of view moves within 
objects, cubes, gearings, etc.«»
«»
The audiovisual impact in Mobile is very intense. Differently from 
State of the Art and 9 Fingers, Mobile does not develop by overload or 
accumulation. Mobile dives its way into deepness. The mobile point of 
view gently squeezes into the strange landscape, into the solids, the 
gearings, the cubes, etc. Watching the demo, the sensation the watcher 
is possessed with is to stay in an aircraft squeezing into the tiny spaces 
between a city's buildings, squeezing within industrial factories 
(gearings, etc.) One feels like floating, like flying. After a rough 
minute of this flutter, the images clear the screen and the still drawing 
of a small tourism airplane is left on the screen whilst the music still 
goes on for another rough minute. The viewer has been transported 
into that small plane to float onto these landscapes. The magic's 
happened again.«»
«»
The visual and musical appeal of Mobile is very high. So high an 
aesthetical grace, coupled with so high a purity and simplicity was a 
way not tried by the productions of the Scene, which unanimously 
moved towards extremism and zany aesthetical witticism. Yet Mobile 
is close to the edge: its code is amazing (back in '93 so many gearings 
had yet not been shown on a screen with so smooth a movement); its 
image is most witty (gearings, cubes, the "squeezing into", the 
"penetration", the "wandering" that as we will see is and will be one of 
the leading symbolic and icastic conceptual cluster of the scene 
imagery); so witty is the music (a morbid and smooth jazz, coupling a 
piper and a sax). But everything is at the same time calm and placid, 
elegant, whereas aesthetical witticism has been so far a concept 
coupling only to spasm, overload, explosion, kaleidoscope.«»
«»
In Mobile music and visuals are still tightly linked together. The 
insinuating tune couples with the mobile point of view wandering 
within the image, to visualise the concept of "squeezing into", of 
"penetration", of "wandering", of insinuating towards: destination 
unknown. Cities and complexes are explored. The aim of this 
exploration is not revealed, thus becoming a mysterious symbol. Once 
again Spaceballs moulded a spectacular audiovisual rich with 
evocative and symbolic implications.«»
«»
By 1994 Paul Endresen's Spaceballs were on top. Lone Starr, Jannicke 
Olsen, TMB design, Audiomonster, Travolta, Vinnie were the gods of 
the Scene:«»
«»
<<For the mighty crew was all a climax, with releases like, State of the 
Art 1st place at The Party-II in 1992, Nine Fingers at the Party-III in 
1993, Mobile Destination Unknown 3rd at The Gathering II.«»
«»
<<Sceners started to look forward to them and many great people thought 
to leave their groups in favour of Spaceballs [...].«»
«»
<<And now after reaching this high point follows an incredible and 
unexpected fall-down. Thanks to their abilities all the coders were 
involved into commercial projects with a result of a long inactivity 
period all other major members left them._21>>«»
«»
Paul Endresen started to work in a software house, TMB in a design-
studio. By 1995 Spaceballs were essentially inactive, even if they still 
existed as a group. The command was passed to other minor members, 
Jannicke went back to her dancing in the musical shows. Spaceballs 
released a lot of minor productions. They are still active, but the fact 
they code for a machine of poor diffusion and emulated with difficulty 
(Amiga AGA) makes very difficult to execute and watch their post-95 
productions (while Standard and ECS Amigas are easily emulated on 
PCs, for example by the WinFellow, and so it is luckily very easy to 
execute and enjoy their masterpieces.) Spaceballs' adventure was to an 
end.«» 
«»
But even if Spaceballs artistic career was over, or better was -and is- 
asleep, they had pulled the cork out of the champagne bottle. A 
copious productions of narrative and symbolic demos, following 
precise scenarios, moulded following an essential unity of impression, 
clayed with inspiration and poetry started to hit the Scene.«»
«»
242 by Fairlight, centred the sensorial overload on a narrative-filmic 
path. The demo, resembling a short film, showed a young bloke, 
filmed from its back. The guy was walking through a city, passing 
crowded streets, shops, underground stations, trains, etc. Over him 
flashed text and in rapid snapshots were constantly shown the pictures 
of a wristwatch and the face of a woman. A fine electronic tune 
completed the demo. After his wanderings, the guy, constantly filmed 
from its back, arrives where he was going to: he approaches a 
wall/doorway/billboard (it is not clear from the images) and a zoom 
over his hands show a paper/card/ad-card/banknote (it is not clear 
again) with the number "242" printed on it. The audiovisual is intense. 
The symbolic suggestion on the chaos of nowadays life (wristwatch, 
rapid wanderings through city, face of a woman, rapid text with words 
saying "death, life, hype, etc.". The final text says "242 a production 
of the year of violence 1993." The charisma of such a narrative and 
symbolic path is undeniable, so as they are undeniable its technical, 
visual (the text is so rapid it can't be read) and musical extremism, and 
the charm of the interaction between sound and image.«»
«»
A cracktro circulating roughly around the same period presented 
another mysterious and fascinating and frightening narrative situation. 
The still picture of an open window was shown, whilst an eerie music 
played and the text telling a story scrolled on. The story told of some 
gruesome killings happened on the street behind the window (who was 
not to be shown).«»
«»
These are just two examples from the many produced in the Scene 
around those years. Spaceballs had shown the way to take that 
audiovisual short-circuit in which consisted a demo and make it a 
piece of art, evocating and telling and symbolizing something. Now 
the Scene had to stretch his legs and learn how to run on its own.«»
«»
«»
«»
§8. PRINCIPLES OF DEMO SPIRIT«»
«»
The excitement that was in the air around 1994 soon lingered out. The 
Scene collapsed in a fatal boredom which it found very difficult to 
disentangle from. Just when it had found a way out of its limitations 
there came an atmosphere of crisis and stagnation that blocked it. The 
problem is well pointed out in the already mentioned article Principles 
of Demo Spirit:«»
«»
<<In the beginning (1985-90), demos were more or less technical show-
offs. Demo coders simply exceeded the limits of their machines [...]. 
They coded effects which - on the first sight - seemed to be 
impossible.«»
«»
<<Later on (1990-1995), with the Amiga being the dominating demo 
platform, most teams embellished their demos with neat graphics and 
fully synchronized sound tracks. This period is often regarded as the 
golden age of demo programming, as it combined great design with 
tricky programming. [...]«»
«»
<<Everybody agrees that the demo scene has managed to bring forth an 
astonishing variety of demo styles during the past 15 years. Many even 
believe the demo scene is more professional and more competitive 
than several other avant-garde branches (such as multimedia agencies, 
computer games producers, music labels). There are certainly few 
other non-profit milieus with comparable levels of competition: For 
relatively small investment (and a bit of effort), clever guys can easily 
reach the top of the world. What do you think: Is it more admirable to 
become no. 1 in conventional music charts or to become no. 1 in world 
demo charts?_22>>«»
«»
The problem pointed out by Juretski is a problem of working 
territories. In its essay, Juretski sketches out 4 types of demo-form in 
which the production of the Scene essentially divides. These four types 
of demo are: Classic Demo; Graphic Demo; Movie Demo; Video 
Demo.«» 
«»
Classic Demo is the original type of demo as pointed before. Graphic 
Demo is similar to Classic Demo in essence but it is centring to 
graphics and tending toward graphic naturalism and the portraiture of 
realistic scenarios, as a sort of virtual reality world. Movie demos are 
narrative demos tending toward naturalism, having a plot and 
resembling a short film and Video Demos are demos which imitates 
music videos.«» 
«»
All of these four types of demo doesn't own a territory of its own and 
trespasses into the boundaries of other forms of art or of creative 
production. Whilst Classic Demos tend to jest and have the problems 
pointed out so far, Graphic Demos tend to resemble design 
experiments, Movie Demos to film and Video Demos to music videos. 
A demo like State of the Art or 9 Finger is similar to a music video, 
Mobile is close to a design experiment, 242 is more an experimental 
short film than a demo, and a classic demo like Hardwired is more a 
firework show than a form of art.«»
«»
There is not even the point of breaking the limits of the computer 
machines because they have so drastically evolved in the latter years 
that this limit isn't reachable anymore: "You can't reach the edge if the 
edge is running away!"_23  Moreover, computer have nowadays a 
greater power to handle image and sound than other media have. 
Digital audio and video is a reality and there's no point in showing 
videos or playing tracks on a computer screen in the form of a demo. If 
I wanna hear a song I play my mp3, if I wanna see a show I play my 
DVD. What's the point of coding a demo?«»
«»
Yes. There's no point in coding a demo if I have to realize a short film, 
a music video, a freaky show. There are other, way better and easy 
ways to make this.«»
«»
<<Computer movies are pretty cool, but they're just initiations of existing 
art forms. You can have the same stuff on TV if you want. It's clear 
that movie demos don't open up a promising perspective for demo 
coding. [...] If we want to introduce a new art form, we really 
shouldn't try to imitate the existing ones.«»
«»
<<It seems that the future of demo coding doesn't look very bright. No 
category in its current stage provides a solid basis for true demo 
creation. [...]._24>>«»
«»
The real Demo Spirit seems to suddenly and mysteriously vanish 
around 1995 and since then the desperate Sceners frenziedly looks for 
it as if being in search of an Holy Grail who's to solve all problems.«»
«»
The problem is actually complex and it does not only involve working 
territories but concerns the identity of the demo-form itself.«»
«»
Going back to zany Classic Demos it could not be denied that, to any 
observer's eye, those old good oldskool classic demos were the ones, 
the ones possessing the spirit, the one you could watch to and get 
excited, get the ideas, get the thing, get the will to code another zanier 
one, etc. Finer demos are classier, artier than classic ones. But ain't 
them loosing it? Are they still a demo?«»
«»
Going far from the classic original way to code a demo the resulting 
artefact seems to lose its identity and to become another form of 
creative production. The problem is a problem of identity. What we 
can unquestionably call a demo?«»
«»
I'll try to step back and analyse the Classic Demos, trying to 
encompass the pre-1994 production of the Scene in a clear outlook, 
herein including the masterpieces so far analysed as well. The attempt 
is to sketch out the contours of the real identity of this artform. I will 
therefore try to dissect and report the essential tracts of the soul of a 
demo.«»
«»
1) Aesthetical extremism. The audiovisual witticism, the already 
mentioned short-circuital essence, seems one of the main pivots of the 
ontological substance of an artefact of the Scene. A demo must 
produce an information overload, a sensorial overload conveyed by 
sounds, images, kinetics and texts, close to the edge of tolerance both 
of the machine producing them and of the viewer watching them. The 
ravings, the pain, and the ecstasy induced by the informative-sensorial 
overload provoke the aesthetic and moral pleasure which is the aim of 
the demo. The controlled blast of a mediatic-sensorial vortex means 
the actualisation and the mastery in the viewing-self of the unleashed 
elements. These elements (sounds, images, texts) are on the contrary in 
the "outside" world wild and are usually nonsensically imposed by an 
acephalous superstructure (mass society) on the individual.«»
«»
2) The demo is an audiovisual form of art involving at the same time 
three forms of expression: music, image and code (which is kinesis, 
dynamic mathematic). The visual component, the musical component, 
the kinetic-mathematical-technical component are the three ultimate 
facet of a demo.«»
«»
3) In the coding of a demo, music, image and code are of equal 
importance. The creative momentum is one and no aspect prevails on 
the other. This is particular important as distinguishes the demo from 
other artforms. For example, in a music video the musical track exists 
before and in total independence from the image, this being 
constructed later and as a visual appendix for the music (for several 
purposes, commercial and promotional ones not being the latter). In a 
music video: music-->image. On the contrary, in a movie soundtrack, 
for example, image-->music, the music serving the image.«»
«»
In the demo-form these relationship of subordination or generation, or 
these different degrees of importance doesn't have any sense. As has 
been my effort to show so far, in the production of the Scene there is a 
conceptual fusion where music, and image, and code are the three 
facets of the same creative momentum. It simply doesn't make any 
sense to talk of the visuals of a demo like State of the Art without 
considering the music or the code, and so is for 9 Fingers, or Mobile, 
or 242 and so on.«»
«»
These three points (which I have also pointed out before) seems to be 
the most important and the most solid when talking about the Scene. 
There are yet several important traits to be analysed.«»
«»
4) The Scene was born in Europe in the middle of the 80s. As I stated 
before, the Scene sprung out of the cultural starvation of the 80s 
encountering the coeval diffusion of pop electronics. The climate of 
those years that has been my effort to describe and outline in §2, was 
determining for the birth of the Scene and is determining as well for its 
artistic and cultural identity.«»
«»
Back in those years of cultural starvation, the first Sceners were 
imbued with a particular melange of cultures and subcultures that was 
and still is the reference cultural base for their productions. This base 
is responsible for the peculiar aesthetical, mythological and 
narratological imagery of the Scene. This imagery is the very matter 
demos are moulded with and constitutes the particular atmosphere 
surrounding them.«»
«»
The melange of cultures and subcultures the Sceners referred to is at 
the same time very peculiar and very heterogeneous, very incoherent 
whilst very accurate. It is a particular mixture of the 80s cultures and 
subcultures the Sceners felt akin to their mood. I mentioned these 
cultures in §2: literary or cinematographic American indie subcultures 
(cyberpunk, fantasy, avant-pop) and Japanese cartoons or animation of 
the same period. The fantastic imagery of these subcultures, messily 
mixed together, became the main source of inspiration and the very 
matter itself demo were made of. «»
«»
It is therefore common and proper, to see in a demo dragons, 
dungeons, princesses, heroes, starships, stars, industrial scenery, huge 
cities, gearings, kaleidoscopes, wires, etc. It is not very common, on 
the other hand, to see in a demo other scenarios: children playing on a 
beach, everyday situations, calm pictures, etc. «»
«»
5) In all the demos so far analysed a recurrent character was the 
obsessive number of effects and of the elements introduced. In a demo 
the tune and the visuals constantly change, and classic demos are 
actually constructed this way, merely as a series of elements and of 
graphics: the already mentioned "Fade in effect - show it for a few 
seconds - fade it out again: This is the basic storyboard of classic 
demos."_25  This is an addiction to overabundance and excess, an 
obsessive baroque taste, crafting for craft's sake. It is not the same 
thing of aesthetical witticism: aesthetical witticism concerns quality; 
overabundance concerns quantity. But of course these concepts share 
the same nature and mutually multiply themselves, characterising all 
the sound and the visuals of the Scene. Self-propelling abundance is a 
constitutive element of a demo. Of course, when this abundance is 
mastered and subject to unity of impression the result if fine, otherwise 
a demo can merely be a zany jest. «»
«»
6) The Scene originally was, and in some aspects still is a very 
restricted and self-referential movement (and for this reason 
Borzyskowski considers it as a "sect", a cultural secluding circle.) «»
«»
The Scene originally was, and in some aspects still is, a "sect", i.e. a 
group of people sharing the same interests with morbid zest, 
enshrouding with mystery and secluding from others cultural contexts. 
The production of the Scene is born, lives and dies within the Scene. It 
is not considered as a mean of expression, nor as art. It is merely a jest 
acted and consumed with other peers. «»
«»
This reflects on demos themselves. A demo is a product for sectarians, 
the liturgy of an unknown religion, the instrument of a very singular 
sect. It celebrates rites and meanings that cannot be comprised by 
whom who is not an adept himself. A demo is permeated with this 
mysterious spirit: references, messages, salutes, credits which made up 
the text often present of a demo; the magniloquent and very serious 
tones surrounding a production; the sectarian mythology which is the 
very matter of a demo; the mysteries behind the Sceners, the 
pseudonyms, the division in groups having more or less prestige, a 
tense and mystical climate, all a long series of sacral paraphernalia. 
The demo is the product of a orphic sect. «»
«»
7) The demo is the product of a sect and is similar to a religious 
liturgy. As every rite the demo must respect a precise form and syntax, 
which has to be repeated over and over and over. The Scene as an 
artistic movement is therefore very conservative and reactionary. A 
demo has to be created in a precise way. There is a certain structure to 
respect, a precise visual and musical allure to evoke, definite elements 
and paraphernalia to introduce. Who watches a demo has to spot out 
and recognize these elements, and has to recognize that the audiovisual 
he is watching is a demo- and to be recognized as a demo, all the 
elements he usually finds in a demo and the usual demo-atmosphere 
has to be present. Who is coding a demo is aware of this and must 
cope with this. All the standard demo elements must be present, and 
the skill of the Sceners (and the Spaceballs were masters in this) is to 
mould these elements in the general unity of impression of the whole 
product. «»
«»
8) The self-referential and conservative nature of the Scene brings 
forth a last trait, that we can state as a precise rule: Demos has to be 
100% original in every aspect (music, image, code) and must be the 
product of Sceners. A track not composed by Scene musicians cannot 
find way in a demo, and so can't visuals not related to Scene. 
Interaction with other artistic territories is felts as an assault to Scene 
purity and virginity, a fatal violation who could mar the creativity of 
the movement. «»
«»
9) A character most Sceners feel essential to a demo is its vectorial 
nature. Every digital music or picture can be vectorial or bitmap 
(raster). A vectorial music or image is generated, a bitmap music or 
image is reproduced. Music produced by a computer can be (each time 
the music is played) generated or reproduced. A mod or a midi track is 
real-time generated each time it is played. Like an orchestra following 
a musical score, the computer using its samples perfectly generates the 
tune. Playing a raster track, on the contrary, like a wav or an mp3, is 
like putting a tape into a deck and hitting play: the computer 
reproduces the track which has been previously recorded and stored in 
raster form. «»
«»
The same is with images. A digital photograph is a bitmap image, copy 
of an existing image which is merely shown by the computer. 
Vectorial graphics is instead created in the virtual world. «»
«»
The difference between vectorial and bitmap is deep and of great 
momentum: it is original vs. copy, mastery vs. casualness, charm vs. 
shallowness, quickness vs. slowness, lightness vs. obesity, purity vs. 
dirtiness, freshness vs. decrepitude, symbolism vs. naturalism. «»
«»
The use of vectorial techniques was necessary at the beginning, when 
pop computers of the 80s and early 90s couldn't handle bitmap, which 
is very heavy. Bitmap was cut out from demo-science, while its was 
appealing for some aspects as it could reach high levels of graphic and 
musical naturalism.  «»
«»
Nowadays that computers easily handle raster music and visuals there 
seem not to be any problem anymore in utilising it in demos. But after 
a moment of enthusiasm for the use of raster elements, Sceners 
suddenly felt its essential disharmony with the Scene. Bitmap is a 
recorded track, a movie, a digital photo. Ma a demo doesn't "show". It 
creates. The Scene aims to new sounds. It aims to mastery and 
witticism. It aims to the puzzle, the charade, to the overload, the short-
circuit- whereas bitmap is naturalistic, slow, normal, heavy. Vectorial 
means pure, vectorial is divine whereas bitmap is human. «»
«»
A demo ought to be, or at least should be, mainly vectorial and should 
not use raster elements. These could yet (and are in fact) be used, but 
not massively. For example, in State of the Art and 9 Fingers Jannicke 
image comes from filmed sessions, and is therefore bitmap, but of 
course one couldn't stop calling these productions "demo" because 
bitmap is used. They are of course demos in the full sense of the term. 
Firstly all the rest of the demo (song included) is vectorial. And 
moreover, the use of so fine a bitmap back in '92 aroused prise, 
because bitmap was then tricky to use on those machines being very 
heavy.«» 
«»
242 by Fairlight is essentially a raster demo as well. I consists in a 
movie filmed by a camera. But here again bitmap means not fault, and 
the Fairlight actually were very proud to b wittily store so bitmap in 
just 800K with so nice and charming a visual effect. «»
«»
The rule of vectorial over bitmap should therefore be wisely 
considered, even if in general terms we can safely say that a demo 
should mainly be vectorial. «»
«»
10) Sceners do not always consider themselves as artists. As I 
described in §2 the word "art" is to them an alien term, often 
concealing negative connotations. They are not anymore the neurotic 
jesters of the beginning, but they are reluctant to be considered as 
artists. The Sceners more easily look on themselves as craftsmen, as 
Japanese wisemen entertaining themselves with a noble art like 
making origami, cultivating bonsai or composing haiku poetry. «»
«»
The Sceners seldom use the word "art" and "artists", and this want of 
confidence in their value as great artists (this is the way I actually 
consider them) often reflects in their production and in the life of the 
Scene itself, which recurrently collapse into still moments. The history 
of the Scene is made up of great exploits and great depressions, and 
great demos are followed by poor demos. «»
«»
This fatal alternation of zest and tiredness becomes itself a 
distinguishing character of the demo themselves, which are flawed 
artefacts, damned masterpieces, angels with broken wings. So very 
often we can have a fine demo with zany or gross elements, because 
demo-maker lack of confidence in their creations, and have finest 
demos, the masterpiece so far analysed included lack in part that 
confident power that could have brought them top of the world. This 
fatal flaw is notwithstanding another element of the decadent charm of 
the demo itself, and it has to be considered as one of its constitutive 
traits. «»
«»
Summing up:«»
«»
The ten traits of a demo:«» 
1) Aesthetical extremism. Capability of  mediatic and sensorial overload.
«»
2) Audiovisual art involving at the same time music, image and code. «»
3) Music, image and code are the three facets of the same creative
momentum.«»
4) Use of a peculiar set of aesthetical and diegetic imagery. «»
5) Self-propelling baroque abundance, often finely mastered. «»
6) Auto-referential-ism. Dense atmosphere of sacredness and mystery. «»
7) Conservative artistic movement. Exact morphology and syntax to
respect.«» 
8) Rule of the 100% original and 100% demoscene-related stuff.«»
9) Prevalence of vectorial techniques over the raster ones.«»
10) Melange of zest/tiredness as a distinguishing character. Decadent charm.
«»
«»
These coordinates will help me in the analysis I will do on the post-
1995 productions.«»
«»
«»
«»
§9. WE HAVE EXPLOSIVES!«» 
«»
For some years after the Spaceballs' triumphs, the production of the 
Scene lost much of its appeal and of its momentum. The reasons for 
this bad moment, apart artistic dynamics of climax and downfall, were 
technical reasons too. The years 1995-1997 saw the end of the pioneer 
era of pop computerisation. Old computers were massively replaced 
with modular assembled PCs, the large part mainly running on 
Microsoft's Operating Systems. Computers arrived everywhere, and 
there rise the internet, the global web interconnecting them all. 
Computers gained and gain every minute passing by overwhelming 
power and potentiality. During these transition years 1995-1997 the 
Scene tried to metabolize this changeover and to pass to the new 
machines.«»
«»
One of the first acclaimed Classic Demo for MS-OS-based PCs was 
Second Reality by Future Crew, followed by Cristal Dream by Triton. 
Anyway, with the launch of Windows 95, the death of MS-Dos, the 
growing powers of new computers and the internet, the way to 
approach a computer changed and this reflected to the Scene. It was 
felt that there was a new phase of the Scene, and the old golden days, 
the "oldskool" days, were over. Yet there was not any real good "nu-
skool" creation. And this for a long way to come. Sceners had to way 
till Christmas 1998 to set their eyes on something real new. Something 
real rock, yeah!«»
«»
In Christmas 1998 a designer from Paris, Carlos Pardo (aka Made) and 
a Scener, Pascal Massimino (Skal) from Paris too, they hit the Scene 
with their group Bomb! and set the Scene on fire with one of those 
magic demo that seem to change everything: State of Mind.«»
«»
It was four years that Bomb! were in activity. They had released a 
couple of demos, nothing real special, actually. Moreover the group 
was not a real group. Bomb! really were just Carlos Pardo and his 
burning love with the Scene and the demos of the Scene. He was the 
only active member, Carlos Pardo the founder of Bomb!, not really 
anybody else. «»
«»
Carlos Pardo was not really a Scener. He was a designer, a graphic 
artist. There was the need of a coder, of a musician, of Sceners able to 
set Pardo's phantasms free, to unleash them on a screen. Pardo 
therefore started working with any Scener he could, the label 
Bomb! yet meaning just him and his explosive enthusiasm. «»
«»
This strong enthusiasm was enough, in a moment when everybody else 
in the Scene didn't seem to have anything new to say or to propose. He 
catalysed on him all the attention and he even managed to move the 
centre of the Scene from Scandinavian countries down to Paris. 
Around 1998 a lot of the Scene moved around Paris. Groups and 
Parties moved to Paris and the general atmosphere slowly became 
more "arty" and languid compared to the gross and turgid Nordic 
Scene. Some demos even started to "speak" French. It was a slow but 
tangible change.«»
«» 
Pardo actually was a very fine and powerful cultural agitateur, but his 
actual several releases  were very zany and pointed to nowhere. In 
April 1998, with the Scene group of the "Nomads" he released 
Squeezed!, a pretentious demo, with a very boring soundtrack, 
scattered poetry, a cosmic scenery, and other Scene-related 
paraphernalia. The only cool part of the demo is when the set moves 
away from the space junk and propose a 3d trip to several underground 
stations of Paris, in the latter of which the moving camera is 
squeezed between two trains. In this part the music gets better and the 
RAFT underground trains are finely realised in vectorial 3d graphic. 
This part set aside, the demo is nothing special, boring, with bad music 
and visuals and going nowhere in spite of its pretentiousness. «»
«»
Yet just six months after this flop, his creative ambition and his 
enthusiasm won it. Christmas' 98, Denmark, Party-VIII, the same 
arena where six years earlier the Spaceballs smashed the Scene with 
their glorious masterwork State of the Art- Pardo (Made) and (Skal), 
French refugees in Holy Scandinavian ground, brought some fresh air 
in the stark Scene citadel. «»
«»
States of Mind (plural) it was a track by Senser, a British indie band, 
from the album Stacked Up released in 1994. It was an awesome song, 
both lyrically_26  and musically overwhelming. Senser music 
consisted of a mix of various musical genres, but was essentially a 
punk tornado, full of rage and anarchic angst against society. Made 
and Skal, inspired and excited by this song decided to construct a 
demo on it, a demo exactly rendering on screen the sonorous sensation 
evoked by the song, a demo that was the visual incarnation of it. «»
«»
State of Mind (singular) was the astonishing result. The overwhelming 
electric atmosphere of the song was absorbed in every ampere by 
Made and Skal that fully transposed it in the kinetic and icastic terms 
of the demo. The Bomb! created the perfect cyberpunk demo, the 
ultimate cyberpunk audiovisual showing in its 6 minutes of duration 
everything cyberpunk ever said and will say. «»
«»
Once the demo is executed, the song by Senser, stored in mp3 format, 
starts loudly to play. 
On the screen is displayed in huge letters the label "Parental Advisory 
Required", the standard label usually attached on CDs or videotapes 
when their content is certified as offensive, trivial or dangerous. Here 
in this demo by Bomb! the label is anyway modified and it indeed says 
"No Parental Advisory Required". The label then disappears leaving 
place for other writings, some of which being lines from Senser's 
States of Mind lyrics, others being messages-slogans from Bomb! to 
the watchers. «»
«»
With a vortex of sounds and visuals Bomb! evoke a climate of 
warfare, of "state of emergency", of urban guerrilla, of revolution, an 
atmosphere vaguely retro, vaguely early 900s. The demo shows 
footage of big labour rallies during the French Third Republic, huge 
crowds parading, strikes and demonstrations. Complex object and 
gearings are shown too according to the usual syntax of a demo. The 
graphic and kinetic quality of the overall is very alluring, and the 
mixture of retro footage and futuristic objects is very effective and 
fascinating. «»
«»
When the musical track comes to a calmer moment, a first intermezzo 
comes in. An out-of-focus footage of a crowd marching fades in and 
writings in huge letters say:«»
«»
"WORK - BUY - CONSUME - DIE" «»
«»
carved in Roman Latin alphabet and in a strange unknown made-up 
alphabet to counterpoint the Standard Roman Latin alphabet.«»
«»
The loud part of the song comes again and accordingly the scenario 
changes too. A cyberpunk setting is vectorially created and a big 
postmodern city is shown, crammed full of aircraft and flying cars, 
according to the classic imagery of the cyberpunk city as seen in the 
movies (to mention just the best, the all-times cyberpunk movie 
masterpiece, Blade Runner by Ridley Scott). The mobile point of view 
of the demo dives into the maze of this city provoking an awesome 
and bewildering effect (the "diving into" the maze of a city or into a 
maze of tunnels is by the way a topos of the demos, let's just 
remember the mentioned Mobile by the Spaceballs or the presently 
mentioned Squeezed! by Bomb!) The kinetic effect is on the verge of 
toleration and the fast scenery provokes massive exaltation and 
bewilderment. Text and slogans constantly batter the screen. «»
«»
The song chills again out and a second satiric intermezzo fades in. A 
faraway rotating galaxy is shown. An arrow is pointing to a 
determinate point within this galaxy. To the other end of this arrow are 
shown, in succession: the logo "M" of MacDonalds restaurants, a can 
of Coca-Cola, a Dollar note and the symbols of the Yen, the British 
Pound, the Dollar ($, £, ¥) The arrow clearly points, within that 
rotating galaxy, to the tiny planet earth. Like it was a space map, the 
demo shows that in the huge universe, within a huge galaxy, a 
microscopic planet goes on with its civilisation, thinking that it is great 
and that it is the centre of the universe, while it is actually nothing but 
an invisible dot in the universe. Its civilisation its nothing, its 
microscopic little restaurants are nothing, the symbols of its economic 
power are nothing, its boasted mass society is nothing. This 
intermezzo is a bitter satiric lash. «»
«»
The last loud part of the song fades in and the demo scenery changes 
again. The video footage of women working in a factory at an 
assembly line is shown. This is typical American "Fordist" way of 
working from the 50s. The demo then strolls to its end: credits and 
acknowledgements are shown. Then the picture of an American soldier 
in the Vietnam war and the writing: «»
«»
"STATE OF MIND: RESIST"«»
«»
appear. Bomb! therefore indirectly give an answer to the lyrics by 
Senser that in their lines  talk about a State of Mind which is necessary 
for man to stand up against the corruption of power and society. And 
this State of Mind is an imperative: RESIST«»
«»
After this, the screen goes blank, there's a scrabbled sound, like if 
somebody is tuning a radio, and then appears a footage showing a 
happy family vaguely Art Déco dressed, like it was a family from 
Paris from the 40s. There is the father very well dressed, a happy cute 
little girl, a cute little boy with a black dog. The snapshot seems to 
catch an ineffable happy moment. Bomb! sign this picture with the 
signature "Bomb!, Paris 1998", and their website address_27  thus 
ending this amazing demo. «»
«»
The result was astounding. The visuals created by Bomb! possessed 
several layers of artistic allure and worked their way to the watcher in 
many different manners. First of all, Made tried himself out in totally 
new techniques of moulding visuals that set trend and deeply changed 
styles and vogues of the Scene: the mélange between retro and 
postmodern, between analog and digital, between raster and vectorial. 
Made forced into his demo the poor quality of early century footage, 
scratched film, dust, daguerreotypes, lens flares, and coupled all this 
with the kinetic speed of the overall, with the musical overload, with 
the cyberpunk allures and dynamics. This mélange of element 
possessed evocative pregnancy and was a really great and exciting 
visual result, one of the greatest achieved by the Scene. It indeed soon 
become a trend amongst Sceners to create dust, retro and analog 
effects in their demos. Made worked like an expert witch-doctor 
preparing his potion. He carefully dosed styles and emotion, he 
rummaged through the icastic matter, mixing the elements of the 
Scene with grand power.«»
«»
But the visual greatness of the demo was only one of its winning 
features. The visuals of State of Mind coupled indeed with the track by 
Senser and became active at different explicit or submerged levels. All 
the distinctive traits of a demo was blended and arranged into a 
powerful chord, thus achieving a great result of unity of impression: 
the aesthetical extremism, the capacity of provoking a mediatic and 
sensorial overload, the kinetic vortex twirling music, image and text, 
all the Scene paraphernalia and a well controlled baroque explosion, 
the sectarian sacredness and mystery. All those pulsing element were 
active and worked in an explicit, evocative and symbolic way in the 
attempt to communicate the sense of challenge, of struggle, the word 
of anarchic resistance, the message of prevalence of the State of Mind 
over death imposed by Society over the Individual. All this was 
screamed out, whispered, suggested, hinted to, acted up, there was the 
satire and the tragedy, irony and scare, grinding teeth, foaming mouth. 
We Have Explosives, Bomb! symbolically declared. And they were 
using them, of course they were.  «»
«»
For the fist time, a Demo has something to say. It is not a good or poor 
patchwork of colours and sounds. It's ART SCREAMING. And that's 
not propaganda or political message. It was Munch's Scream, the 
future of Blade Runner, the stories by William Gibson and Storm 
Constantine, the music by Senser and by Kreators. It had the power of 
art, the breath of art, that very breath that in a less complicate way had 
State of the Art and in a more submerged, Freudian way had 9 Fingers. «»
«»
The fusion between musical expression and icastic expression, which 
was responsible for this miracle, took place according to deep and 
fecund dynamics and logics. Every single moment of the visuals of the 
demo was proper and unique, every single frame conveyed a thousand 
sensation, shined of a thousand facets, glowed of a single power, of a 
single halo, of a single soul. «»
«»
State of Mind set the Scene afire and sparkled a sort of inebriation. 
The "French phase" of the Scene was at its acme. Made/Pardo was the 
man. And for a moment, it even seemed that demos had to walk a 
"political" path, that they had to bring a message, to declare 
something, to start a battle or something similar. Somebody walked 
this way. Kolor, a German group, collected some political junk from 
the 70s and in 1999 proposed a political demo, Hebst 77.«»
«»
The demo actually was inoffensive. In a readme attached to the demo, 
Kolor explained: «»
«»
<<Herbst 77. The time of political motivated left terrorism in Germany it 
is the theme of this demo. [...T]he demo text [...] is from the singer 
Degenhardt._28 «»
«»
<<This demo is about history: in fall 1977, in Germany the "Rote Armee 
Fraktion (RAF), who described themselves as a socialist urban 
guerrilla, shattered the whole country by bombing and killing. [...]«»
«»
<<Just some years ago [...] the RAF declared their street fight to be over, 
with most of their members being imprisoned or dead.>>«»
«»
The demo really was a very good piece. The visuals are similar to 
those moulded by Pardo in his masterpiece (footage + retro effects + 
big lyrics and slogans), the music by Raytrazed of Kolor is a real 
masterpiece of music of the Scene (eerie and beautiful), the lyrics by 
Degenhardt of appalling beauty. But Kolor were walking a wrong way. 
Politic junk was utterly extraneous to the Scene, a movement referring 
to a completely different set of symbolic, diegetic and (un)ideologic 
imagery (as in §2). The Scene is a child of the 80s, a child of the 
uncommittment, the result of a completely different cultural outlook.«» 
 «»
The demo by Kolor was really good looking and really good sounding, 
possessed a tense atmosphere and was really innocent (it had no 
subversive value or whatever), it simply evoked the atmosphere of 
precise historic moment (politic terrorism of the 70s). But the Scene in 
its totality couldn't help to completely reject so problematic and 
dangerous a theme.«»
«»
Excellent craftsmanship and excellent capacity to set an atmosphere, 
but wrong path. Kolor became themselves aware of this and tried out 
completely different territories. They nowadays are a really top group, 
even if they still struggle to found their inspiration and their way. They 
moulded great kaleidoscope-demos (Fresnel, 2000 and Fresnel 2, 
2001) and even the demo transposition of the literature classic Le 
Petite Prince by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry (Le Petite Prince, 2001)«»
«»
State of Mind and Carlos Pardo all the same, after the first bout of 
excitement, did not seem to be the right way either. The artistic result 
the Sceners always aimed and still aim to is a pure triumph of music 
and visuals. Pardo and his ideological demo seemed somehow to mar 
this purity. «»
«»
There was moreover another fact that constituted a problem. For the 
first time an important and very popular production did not use an 
original music composed by musicians of the Scene, but it used a 
commercial track by a band that very probably did not even know the 
existence of this demo and of the Scene altogether. A track that has 
been ripped, stored in bitmap mp3 and played during the demo 
execution. The demo has been even inspired by the track by Senser 
and lived as its icastic transposition. Pardo was boldly violating rule #8 
and #3 and if we consider the overture to ideology we can say Pardo 
was breaking #4, #6, #7 as well. «»
«»
This was not coding a demo anymore. This was simply making a 
music video. Making it with a computer of course, but making a video 
nonetheless. What the fuck! Music, and image, and code should be the 
three facets of the same creative momentum. But Senser's track is a 
standalone track, it sounds just as good if not played with Bomb! 
visuals, it really is an independent song. The fact that Bomb! 
constructed a scaffold of visuals on it is a good thing, but you're not 
developing the art of the Scene, you're just exercising in computer 
graphic. «»
«»
Ideology moreover flawed the Scene. Commitment broke that eerie 
atmosphere surrounding the traditional imagery of a demo. Auto-
referential-ism and mystery were abandoned in favour of an overture 
to political message and it even established a sort of liaison of the 
Scene with other artistic-social-cultural movements (punk, juvenile 
movements, etc.) «»
«»
The excitement about Pardo soon died down. The "good old magic 
demo spirit" seem to dissolve again, to disappear, to hide somewhere, 
faraway, God only knows where. Carlos Pardo having quenched his 
thirst for the Scene, stepped aside, going back to his designer work, 
leaving questions rather than answers, problems rather than solutions. «»
«»
«»
«»
§10. THE MUSIC OF THE SCENE«»
«»
One of these problems was a key problem for the Scene and the future 
of the Scene. The artistic production of the Scene aimed to be 
attractive and original. The copious amount of productions released in 
the 80s, at the beginning of the movement, was mostly due to the great 
artistic freedom granted by an electronic device. People owning a 
"pop" computer did not need anymore a band or a recording studio to 
make a complete musical track. With a computer and a tracker 
program you could, more or less, compose tracks of any genre: 
classical, pop, rock, prog, techno and electronica of course. You could 
arrange them completely, melody, rhythm, drums, and whatever, save 
them in vectorial format and play them (execute them), all this just 
sitting down at your desk, all this just using the power of your 
creativity, all this having the possibility to choose from a nearly 
infinite palette of sound and samples. It was an exciting freedom. It 
was enthralling. It was power. And the same with visuals.«» 
«»
Since the beginning, the musicians of the Scene used this freedom up, 
till the last drop. As I described in §4, the musicians of the Scene 
literally flooded the Scene with a overflow of tracks experimenting 
and trying out every, really every genre and avant-garde experiments. 
It was an unstoppable machine breeding out thousands and thousands 
of tracks. «»
«»
This copious and apparently endless creative vein was actually by 
1998 over. A powerful lack of inspiration took hold of the musician of 
the Scene. The crisis of the Scene was also, and in great part, the crisis 
of the music of the Scene. Bomb! using for the first time in their demo 
a commercial song and not a track composed by the musician of the 
Scene brought the problem to the foreground and started a big debate. 
Carlos Pardo, interviewed by Ohad Barzillay in the article 
"Commercial mp3s in Demos" tries to describe the problem: «»
«»
<<If we chose a commercial music, and we were the first ones (I don't 
have pride or shame about that) it's the result of a lack of GOOD 
musicians in the demoscene [...] I don't know if we are the only group 
to suffer of that, but when we have to design something, our first ideas 
sparks mostly from professional music and when we have to work it 
on computers, there are just very few musicians left on the Scene. I 
mean people that can really express feelings with a personal touch and 
pro-sounding..._29>>«»
«»
and when Pardo is asked How about the old Scene concept about 
"100% original work". Do you think it should change? he arrogantly 
replies:«»
«»
<<A demo is a form of expression and there are no rule when you want to 
express something, that was the first thing in the 80s, and new 
demomakers seems to forget this. «»
«»
<<[...] The old scene concept about "100% original work" is interesting, 
but utopic. 100% original works....it sounds funny when I remember 
my favourite demos, I see copied pictures, ton of commercial samples 
and most of the time improved but copied effects. If you decide to do 
something, you have to do it for "real", or just fix the limits that were 
never fixed for the last 15 years. So, I can count on my fingers the 
100% original demos, so I don't worry very much about that concept. 
It's just that Sceners are a very very conservative community and they 
never liked changes._30>>«»
«»
A Scener, Jim Leonard (Trixter of Hornet), replies to this:«»
«»
<<Call me crazy, but I've always thought demos were about creativity. 
Using someone else's music isn't creative - it's a music video. No 
matter how inventive and amazing the demo is, it doesn't change the 
fact that you ripped the music._31>> «»
«»
The problem of the music of the Scene actually was something more 
profound than a mere querelle between conservative and avantgardists. 
The observation by Jim Leonar was really clear: the death of the music 
of the Scene actually was the death of the Scene in general. Creating 
an audiovisual where music, and image, and code are the three facets 
of the same creative momentum is a very different thing than making 
up images for an existing song. Creating an audiovisual where music, 
and image, and code are the three facets of the same creative 
momentum is aiming to that joyful pure triumph of music and visuals 
which is the real raison-d'être of the Scene. «»
«»
The French Scener Cyril Corvazier, "Hulud" from Digital Murder 
states out:«»
«»
<<It's cool to make a demo 100% original but very hard. Today, most of 
the demos are not 100% original. They have some original features but 
they use most of the time external code, scan or music. The 
productions become more and more complex and we need to go ahead.«»
«»
[...]«»
«»
<<I don't know, it depends on the project. If our next production needs a 
technosound or any kind of tune that a tracker can produce with a good 
result, I will ask for a music to one of my friend. I prefer to use 
original music. «»
«»
[...]«»
«»
<<[It's always preferable] to use original tracks, software rendering, 
handdrawn gfx. I think 100% original productions will be always 
appreciate by the Scene._32>> «»
«»
The crisis of the music of the Scene around 1995 was really a natural 
exhaustion following the great expansion of 1985-1995. All the 
production, the great abundance of melodies, track, tunes, suddenly 
seemed mediocre at best. Barzilay sums the situation up this way:«»
«»
<<1. Scene Musicians are only producing trance / techno / electronic 
music, where as a lot of demo groups are interested in Rock / Funk 
music.«»
«»
<<2. The overall quality is mediocre at best, if not worse, and this refers 
to the electronic gamers. Good Rock / Funk / Jazz tracks are almost 
impossible to compose with the equipment most hobbyist trackers use 
(basically a computer and few over-used samples). «»
«»
<<3. In addition, an increasing number of groups wish to have lyrics in 
the demo they're creating. It adds another dimension and enhance the 
demo, say the people supporting it. As most scene musicians have 
limited access to studio equipment and professional singers, the best 
they can do is record a friend in a room and hope there won't be any 
serious noise picked up. [This] does not produce professional sounding 
track._33>> «»
«»
Actually, once the excitement coming from the sense of creative 
freedom a computer granted died out, suddenly seemed that there were 
insurmountable in-built quality limits in the music generated by 
computers. Melodies and arrangements vectorially composed with a 
computer were destined to stop at this technical limit. They therefore 
were mediocre, and characterised by those defect I have so far many 
times described: poor architecture of the melody, ever-changing-ness, 
metallic sounds, zany timbres, and a tendency to degenerate in the 
poor soundtrack without real rhythmic backbone and without any 
pregnancy and poetic value of the sounds. «»
«»
In an article entitled "The Modern Experimental Music-Scene", a 
musician of the Scene, Roskkouro, analyses the crisis of the music of 
Scene and questions about the future of this kind of music. He hold the 
thesis that the music of the Scene is in crisis because the musicians of 
the Scene stubbornly insist to compose following traditional paths and 
recreating traditional genres. «»
«»
Quoting from the Manifesto of the Futurist Music (1910) by Balilla 
Pratella, Roskkouro proclaims that the real nature of the music of the 
Scene and of its technical possibilities, and greatness, lay in the its 
avant-garde nature, in its possibility to create something really new 
and not to stick to the old, not in Rock, not in Prog, not in Jazz, not in 
existing genres:«»
«»
<<What makes the experimental music-scene so great? First of all, it's 
the fact that its only aim is to unleash the underestimated full potential 
of the art-style known as Music. Secondly, I think it's gravely 
important to innovate and reinvent, instead of analyze, reform and 
reproduce what has already been done, just to detract bad feedback 
based on arguments associated with old rules and barriers set out by 
conservative morons!_34>> «»
«»
The avant-garde front of the music of the Scene is not regressing. The 
website No-Error - The Scene Music News_35, which is the 
headquarter of the musical movement of the Scene is very lively and 
rich of ideas. Musicians and independent productions constantly 
experiment and produce new sounds and new music. The crisis of the 
music of the Scene is probably just a momentary lapse and will soon 
be over, and amazing and great productions will surely be released. «»
«»
«»
«»
§11. RELISH«» 
«»
"So like candy" : this is what the "Blasphemy" from Denmark thought 
of their demo, Moral Hard Candy, shown at the Summer Encounter 
1999.«»
«»
In 1998, whilst the French furore of Carlos Pardo was shaking the 
Scene with his graphic vigour, his ideological commitment, his 
creative enthusiasm, the Blasphemy, leaguing with other Nordic 
groups entered the Scene with the demo Knowboy. This demo showed 
that the Blasphemy had clear ideas about some of the most debated 
questions within the Scene. In the manifesto accompanying the demo 
the Blasphemy declared: "welkkome my friend, we have kkome from 
far away to show you the magikk of our magikk show". And this 
intention of them is clear watching the demo.«»
«»
The Blasphemy aimed exclusively to the pure ecstasy of sound and 
vision. They aimed to the relish of a perfect combination of tunes and 
visuals. Blasphemy's magikk show is really a mesmerising spectacle. 
Their demo is an eerie dimension one can easily lost into. Blasphemy 
only served delis. All they are offering is a candy for our minds. And 
this way of conceiving demos and demomaking was a reply to the 
vigour and the ideological rigour of the French wave. «»
«»
Of course the "the magikk of our magikk show" recalls an entire era 
and the great masterpieces of  Psychedelic art. From the Beatles' 
Magical Mystery Tour to Floyds' Interstellar Overdrive, the 
psychedelic lisergic stupors of late 60s music, the light shows, the 
kaleidoscopic slides, all of psychedelic art. «»
«»
Moral Hard Candy is a gem and surpasses in splendour the easier 
Knowboy which can be considered merely a workbench on which the 
Blasphemy "tried their hand." Once executed, eerie sounds starts to 
pour like an hypnotic dew. The screen stays blank. Let us listen to the 
music that starts to unfold, which is delicate and complex like a sound 
embroidering, a malicious dentelle de sons. This music is composed by 
a Scener musician, Mellow-d of Tpolm and is entitled Ox King Size 
Bull. Listening to this tune one can understand what Cyril Corvazier, 
talking about the music of the Scene, said: "If our next production 
needs [...] any kind of tune that a tracker can produce with a good 
result, I will ask for [it]" and what Roskkouro said: "What makes the 
experimental music-scene so great? First of all, it's the fact that its 
only aim is to unleash the underestimated full potential of the art-style 
known as Music."«»
«»
We're talking about vector music here, completely PC-generated with 
the mod composition technique. Yet the tune does not leak a drop, it 
has not that zany character mod songs used to have, crashing to the 
seemingly insurmountable limits of this compositing method, i.e. 
poorness of timbres and weakness of construction. In Ox King Size 
Bull timbres are on the contrary warm and intense, and architecture is 
as rich as a brocade. A chorus of up to 27 voices weaves several 
sonorous landscapes; different lines of melody entwine in a rapturous 
counterpoint between them; a rich mixture of rhythmic lines serves as 
a robust backbone. Rhythms mix, mingle, entwine, crash one against 
another, blending and harmonising an incredible broad range of 
different rhythmic styles: jungle, upbeat, downbeat, offbeat, grind, 
industrial, futurism. Actually there is a counterpoint of rhythmic lines, 
whilst a malicious and morbid rain of loose sound plays. The structure 
of the track is more traditional: its pattern is basically A1-B1-C-B2-
A2, whereas A1 is initial stillness, B1 a first musical peak, C a 
decrease of tension, B2 a second and more powerful musical acme, A2 
the musical solution and final appeasement. «»
«»
Despite its traditional structure and its musical "parabolic" pattern 
offering a beginning, an acme and a solution, Ox King Size Bull 
remains a weird tune. It is eerie and hypnotising and its delicate 
daintiness does not resemble any other known musical genre. Whereas 
electronic music usually involves a reiteration of strong, marked and 
powerful beats, Ox King Size Bull involves extreme rhythmic 
fragmentation and constant rhythmic variation. Ox King Size Bull is 
very different from the tecnopunk of Condom Corruption / State of the 
Art by Travolta; it is very different from the punk of States of Mind by 
Senser; it is very different from the intriguing jazz/funk of Canal 
Green / Mobile by Audiomonster.«»
«»
There is not actually a codified genre one can classify the music of 
Moral Hard Candy into. One can say it is a fine blend of trance music, 
futurist music, industrial music, jungle music and psychedelic music, 
but Ox King Size Bull is actually something really new. It is musical 
avant-garde. It is the proof that the music of the Scene, as Roskkouro 
had prophesized can be better and more innovative than any other kind 
of music. It is the proof that the music of the Scene can overcome, as it 
does in this example, its problems and attain very bright results, 
turning the awkward aspects of its character (the overabundant 
baroque nature, the zany timbres, the sonorous stratification) into 
powerpoints.«»
«»
As it is for the music, the graphic of the demo grows out of 
counterpoint and of the meeting/clash of various visual tunes. This 
counterpoint is realised by the juxtaposition/stratification of different 
layers of images or by the semantic polyvalence of the icons presented. 
Sometimes these two phenomena take place at the same time.«»
«»      
The peculiarity of the visuals of the demo is that they mix images and 
symbols belonging to three distinct semantic fields: one of them being 
the abstract semantic field of light and of pulsation; the second being 
the semantic field, at the same time abstract and concrete, of 
confectionery; the last one being the concrete semantic field of the 
industrial object and of the industrial site.«»
«»
Once the demo is executed, as the eerie sounds start to pour out, three 
"symbols" hinting to several meanings (semantic polyvalence) ghostly 
appear out of the blank screen. The three symbols are hollow circles of 
pale colour trembling on the blank screen. They recall at the same 
time: ghosts of light; malicious little faces; candies, sweets or tablets; 
cogwheels or gearings; and even the warning signs that are usually 
shown out of scaffoldings or machinery or working sites to signal 
something. Each one of these images evokes by connotation an even 
broader field of signification: ghosts recall mystery; little faces recall 
childhood, the mix of innocence and maliciousness which is the 
essence of childhood, psychoanalysis; candies recall sweetness, relish, 
but also the mysterious and forbidden worlds of alchemy, of 
pharmacy, of drugs and narcotics; industrial signs and machinery 
recall many things: a concrete and everyday world, but also power, 
electricity, prosperity and on the other hand alienation and social 
slavery. In short, from its very beginning the demo fully unfolds the 
counterpoint of connotations and meanings which is its very engine. 
Moreover, looking attentively, it is clear that the three initial symbols 
are three letters that stand for the title of the demo: M.H.C., Moral 
Hard Candy.«»
«»
As the pale colour of the symbols increasingly brightens up, a layer of 
light starts to cloud the screen. Even this layer of light  matches the 
aforesaid semantic fields: it is a ghastly fire, an eerie apparition; but it 
is also a sugar icing; but it is also a bar code.«»
«»
After this introductory part the demo moves on. A big glowing ochre 
light lights the screen. The demo shows a tunnel which is a tunnel of 
light but also the corridor of some building. The watcher feels the 
sensation of walking across several transparent rooms of a building, 
whilst the big ochre light lights the screen. The mobile point of view 
walks on and in the end arrives in a big spherical room, "falling into" 
this room.«»
«»
From this moment on, the icastic engine of the demo starts to work at 
full steam, and it is difficult to the describe the unfolding of demo in 
full. Images become so stratified, many different layers of them being 
at play, that it is very difficult to describe them in full and even to 
catch them in a single vision. At every moment there stratify and 
counterpoint up to 6 different layers of images. There appear several 
kaleidoscopes, tunnels of light, pulsing lights whilst symbols, maps, 
industrial objects and drawings scroll on the screen (these latter being 
difficult to interpret: there can be recognized the map of a building, a 
punching machine, some kind of household appliance of the 50s, a 
punched card.)«»
«»
In the meanwhile several scenes are shown on the foreground. The 
transparent rooms of the building disappear, the colour turns from 
ochra to azure. A big sign appear in the middle of the screen. It 
resembles a lot of signals, from the "this way up" usually stuck on 
parcels to other symbols of electronics; it even recalls the "folder" icon 
of gui operating systems. Behind this polysemantic sign, in the 
background, an azure sea made up of pulsing cylinders start to throb, 
to pulse, to dance. These cylinders recall industrial machines (pistons, 
etc.) but their delicate dance recall something animate, alive: they are a 
clear blue sea; waves and foam; a submarine spectacle; sea flowers; 
underwater candies. «»
«»
This vision is followed by a snaky presence made up of azure scales (a 
cord? a snake? a strange animal? a dragon? a river?) Then there 
appears a tunnel of grey and ochre light. There are several explosions 
of light in bright colours. The theme of confectionery is always present 
because most of the effects resembles, in shape and colour, candies or 
sweets or tablets. The quality of the images is of the finest ever 
moulded by demomakers. Three writings are shown during the 
execution of the demo: Take me away; Sugar loves Candy; So like 
Candy. Towards the end of the demo, a pulsing ball of light appears 
which is very very beautiful, in a word, amazing.«»
«»
The audiovisual candy confectioned by the Blasphemy attains what it 
aims to: relish, pleasure, delight. Its complex structure of sounds and 
visuals melts in the mouth of our eyes, and tastes like sugar tastes to a 
child's tongue. It transcends a problematic and critic dimension; it 
regards only the sense of taste. We do not use our eyes or our ears to 
watch it: we use our tongue. Even the wide range of imagery that is 
brought to motion by the massive icastic engine of the demo lives in a 
sublimated dimension, where all the problematic matter it might 
activate is fermented to sweetness. This artistic fermentation, this 
distillation to purity is used many times for example in Pop Art. Moral 
Hard Candy is delight and nothing else. «»
«»
The relationship between musical expression and icastic expression in 
the demo is very deep and enthralled and it relies mainly upon the 
counterpoint. There is of course counterpoint between visuals and 
music, whereas music and visuals are by themselves made up of 
counterpoint. Music and visuals are so tied between themselves that it 
seems one can't tell one from the other, the two of them being the 
same magic confetto.«»
«»
Moral Hard Candy is so important because it accomplishes a result 
many demos tried for, failing. This result is delight, relish. Many 
demos tried to be simply delightful. Wonder by Sunflowers, for 
example, a demo of the same year 1999, is a cute production, and with 
very nice graphics too, but it fails to attain the semiotic wideness and 
the purity of Moral Hard Candy. Another quite famous production, 
Heaven 7 by Exceed, released the following year 2000, is the perfect 
example of how a demo can be perfect from a technical point of view, 
but very shallow at the same time. The demo sounds pretentious and 
grand, featuring a sharp graphic that has been very acclaimed (and that 
was actually really fine and technically astonishing the year when it 
was released), and putting in crappy new-age settings and poetry. The 
result is a pretentious and boring production showing how easy is for 
demomakers to fall to very low artistic results even unleashing shining 
visuals and loud sounds.«»
«»
«»
«»
§12. HORROR«»
«»
"Industrial Music - music (mostly concrete music) utilising sounds 
and noises from the industrial environment (factories, jammed 
motorways, pneumatic hammers, chainsaws, etc.) It is often combined 
with "samples", i.e. collage of clippings from radio or filmic footage; 
and it involves a twisted and extreme usage of the vocal and 
instrumental wares and twisted, scary, sometimes horror or occult 
subject matter. 
The fatherhood of the term "Industrial", which was born in 1976, is 
ascribed to Genesis P-Orrige, founder member of the Throbbing 
Gristle and of the Psychic Tv. Within these two projects, P-Orrige tries 
out his theories concerning permanent nuisance, the use of subliminal 
techniques, continual shocks and a lot of Gore and Spatter action up to 
Black and Snuff acts, involving simulate castrations, killings, the 
sampling of recorded voices of killers and their victims. 
P-Orrige's leading theory was "entertainment through pain". He was 
an explorer of the occult zones of the unconscious, a laureate in 
occultism, a fan of horror flicks. He takes that "using the right rhythms 
and sounds you can hypnotise people and bring them within the heart 
of your very nightmare."
Classic groups of Industrial Music are the Throbbing Gristle, the 
Human League, the Cabaret Voltaire, leading the way to Skynny 
Puppy, the Kilnik, Coil, Ministry ecc." (from the Dizionario della 
Musica Pop e Rock)_36 «»
«»
The Party-IX, Christmas 1999, was shocked when Doktor Detroit, Der 
Commander, Herr Weltschaft, Powa, the United States of America, 
Genius, Gott, and "The Artist Formerly Known As Doktor Roole" - 
that's to say the German group of the Elitegroup - entered the Scene 
with the demo Kasparov.«»
«»
The Scene sharply reacted. Most of the Sceners judged it as an utterly 
boring and ugly production. In spite of all this, Kasparov was the talk 
of the day for the following months, and has been since then a 
milestone of the art of the Scene and even for computergraphic in 
general.«»
«»
In 1994 the Nine Inch Nails, an American musical group, released the 
concept-album The Downward Spiral, masterpiece of the Industrial 
Music. «»
«»
The Downward Spiral is a strong, complex and mature work. It is 
conceptually, lyrically and musically very bitter and very intense and it 
certainly is a milestone of the musical genre to which it belongs._37  
The concept-album describes the spiritual breakdown of the modern 
man and of his society, thus being conceptually very close to some of 
the great masterpieces by Pink Floyd (The Dark Side of the Moon, 
1973; The Wall, 1981.)«»
«»
The Downward Spiral moves through introspections and situations of 
the life and of the breakdown of a man, who is the protagonist of the 
story unfolded by the album. The protagonist moves from failure to 
failure all the way down to the verge of self-destruction - or to the 
accomplishment of it; it is in fact not very clear if the man commits 
suicide in the end of narration. The work by Nine Inch Nails is both 
lyrically and musically very complex and difficult: its lyrics and 
sounds are harsh, bitter up to the verge of endurance, and yet they are 
very evocative and poetic. «»
«»
The novelty of this work resided mainly in its style. The Nine Inch 
Nails did found a way to effectively express the astonishment, the 
agony, the distress of the Nietzsche's scream "God is dead": and this 
in completely new ways: the themes, the images, the settings, the 
words, the sounds, the very wares employed to realise their work were 
never tried before and were on the edge of artistic, conceptual and 
material endurance. «»
«»
There are two keywords to describe this stylistic novelty and 
extremism: Industrial, which is the genre of music (and extensively, of 
art) whose definition I quoted at the beginning of this paragraph; and 
Horror, which is the feeling this art rouse (the very "entertainment 
through pain" that P-Orrige planned.)«»
«»
Kasparov unleashes horror, just like the akin Downward Spiral. The 
demo by Elitegroup is an Industrial nightmare, engineered with an 
infernal craftsmanship. «»
«»
A factory.«»
A factory in the middle of nowhere.«»
«»
In 1976, the very year when "daddy" Orrige "created" the Industrial, 
the Pink Floyd released the "punk" album Animals. This album 
"portrayed mankind in Orwellian characters of animals: dogs, pigs and 
sheep" and "let out anger towards all the humanity."_38  The artwork 
for this album (cover and photo-set inside the cover) presents two key 
images: the factory standing in the middle of nowhere; and the "pig on 
the wing" ("Pigs on the wing"  is also the title of the frame-song of the 
album encompassing all of the other tracks.) «»
«»
The forlorn factory (epitomising the world, human society) and the 
"pig on the wing" (man) are icons of a certain artistic tradition starting 
up from Orwell and his Animal Farm. As early as 1969 George 
Harrison sang "Have you seen the little piggies, living piggy lives? 
You can see them out for dinner, with their piggy wives" and by 1976 
the "pig on the wing" seemed to have become a key symbol of 
contemporary culture, present everywhere, from the work by Pink 
Floyd to the pages of Lidia Ravera and her famous novel "Pigs on the 
wing" (Porci con le ali.) The icon of the "pig" is took again by Nine 
Inch Nails: in their Downward Spiral one track is entitle "Piggy" and 
another "March of the Pigs". They therefore take again the image of 
the pig and they couple it again with the image of the factory, making 
them two powerful symbols of the Industrial Music and Industrial Art. «»
«»
In the photo-set for Animals by Pink Floyd, the pig on the wing (a 
huge inflatable aerostatic pink rubber pig) floats over and "explores" a 
big industrial site placed in the middle of nowhere.«»
«»
A factory in the middle of nowhere. Tall chimneys piercing a grey sky. 
Huge and hollow warehouses, abandoned industrial wares. And all 
around this, boundless, empty wilderness. Empty spaces. Nothing. 
This is Kasparov.«»
«»
Once executed, the demo starts showing the name of the group 
Elitegroup, and the title of the demo, Kasparov. Then a naturalistic 3D 
scenery follows on. The visuals are entirely vectorial-generated 3D 
graphic of very high quality. «»
«»
A robot marches on across a huge and empty underground parking lot. 
The robot is hideous and utterly disquieting. It resembles a pig. A big 
mechanical pig. It is big, stocky, it moves very slowly and wobbly, its 
head is gross and set on its build with no neck. It is a robot-pig. «»
«»
While the robot pig wobbly staggers in the underground car park, 
mechanical screeching and sounds of pistons creaks here and there, 
according to the pure Industrial music style. The robot-pig that can be 
seen in this introductory part of the demo is the only animated 
character that the demo will show._39  The hollowness is in fact the 
only protagonist of the demo.«»
«»
The pig in fact clears the scene and the introductory part of the demo is 
over. «»
«»
An enormous factory in the middle of nowhere is shown, while an 
Industrial music starts right off. The main part of the demo is entirely 
devoted, almost obsessively, to the exploration of this huge industrial 
site placed in the middle of the wilderness. During this manic journey, 
the pig-watcher will see, will experience, everything in first-person. 
Everything will be shown from a subjective mobile point-of-view, 
from a virtual camera moving within the scenario, a camera coinciding 
with the eyes of the watcher, with the eyes of the huge pink rubber pig 
of the Pink Floyd floating over the industrial site, with the eyes of the 
pig-robot shown at the beginning of the demo. The watcher is in the 
car of a roller-coaster ready to take off for a trip to the haunted palace, 
for a trip to hell.«»
«»
Let's jump in this car and have a seat. The direction of the visuals and 
the sounds is awesome. Suddenly we have the first sight of the huge 
abandoned factory, as the moving camera emerges from the edge of a 
small hill covering its sight. The industrial site looks terrible, 
overwhelming, under a sky as dark as ink. The car moves slowly, 
music is downbeat, and we have the impression to float in the air, as 
the pink pig of Pink Floyd did. «»
«»
Them the trip (the demo) begins. It is impossible to describe what will 
happen in words. The core of the demo, unfolding in more than 15 
minutes, is an of obsessive exploration of the industrial complex: this 
will be explored in every angle, in every corner, in every direction, 
from every perspective: the camera will go above, behind, around, 
under it, will pierce within it and will space without it. The industrial 
wares, the machines, the tall chimneys, the nearby mines, the rail 
terminal, the undergrounds (let's say the dungeons), the empty car 
parks, the very rooms, the very pipes, every single gearing, every 
single cogwheel will be shown. From the huge empty warehouses to 
the tiny single bolt. Everything will be shown. «»
«»
When a man finds himself in a huge and complex technological site, 
there is a feeling he may usually feel: he may be astonished and 
terrified that that very complex is no more under human control, that it 
is beyond him, that it is completely independent from him, and that he 
will not know it. That may not be a sci-fi concept, abut a everyday, 
common one. The reality surrounding us, created by man, can become 
independent from man. Independent doesn't really means hostile. 
Independent just means there's no more connection between the 
creator and the creature. «»
«»
Let's say I'm in the subway of London, this big crowded dungeon of 
corridors, passages, stairs, etc. In the meanwhile I'm completely 
drowned in it, which surpasses me, which overwhelms me in 
complexity, I wonder: "what if a light bulb x or a switch y or a fuse z 
down the faraway tunnel alpha, tunnel placed under the passage beta, 
passage which is under the stairway gamma which is behind the 
railway delta... what if, in a word, this bulb planted in the middle of 
the earth burns out... will the man know? will the man care? will the 
man trace it and mend or replace it?" There are reasonable reasons to 
think that the bulb x is no more useful to man, that in every case it 
doesn't mean anything to man, that man did forget it down there, that 
it is unreachable to man. It is down there, it has nothing to do with 
man anymore, it is without the domain of man. Mr. Smith, who 
everyday goes to the subway to take his train to go to work, will never 
know anything of that bulb. And if that bulb will be ever mended, or 
replaced, it will not be by Mr. Smith, but it will be the apparatus itself 
doing the work. Mr. Smith will not know everything, Mr. Smith will 
not see everything, Mr. Smith will not understand everything.«»
«»
Kasparov shows everything.«»
«»
And this "everything" is cold, and hollow, and dark stuff. Nobody will 
be seen within this maze of wares. Nobody. Nothing. The only 
animated objects that will be shown in two quick scenes are a swarm 
of insects-bacteria-larvae robots (infesting, plaguing, violating the 
structure); and a couple of spiders-crawlers robots doing a repair work 
on the structure (they are mending the aforesaid "bulb x": they mend, 
they create, they weave): the disease and the cure of the structre: 
everything is within the structure itself.«»
«»
Man is not in the picture. It is not the domain of man. There's only a 
pig. A forlorn pig. A goofy, weak, absurd robot-pig, wobbly strolling 
around an empty parking lot. A parking for no one.«»
«»
Everything does mean nothing.«»
«»
Yet Kasparov is not only a simple trip within this everything-nothing. 
It is also a manic and painful journey to madness. As the trip goes on, 
in fact, its nature gradually changes, becoming amplified and distorted.«»
«»
Amplification: the speed and the complexity of the movements of the 
camera gradually increase. We really are in a mad roller-coaster, a 
roller-coaster running without any control. You can't get off the car 
once you're in. «»
«»
The speed of the camera becomes higher and higher and it will become 
so high that it will be unbearable. The complexity of its exploration 
will go accordingly: the camera pierces into a maze of corridors, 
narrow ways, dark tunnels, winding and twisted pathways; the camera 
climbs soaring heights from which it suddenly falls; it will follow 
pipes that are intricate as wild vines._40  Soon the trip changes into a 
bottomless fall. «»
«»
But it not simply a fall. It is a haunted descent. «»
«»
Distortion: the visuals and the sound of Kasparov become in fact 
gradually more and more distorted and consequently more and more 
disturbing. There are several effects of distortion: from the simple 
effects of distortion similar to those produced by a hazed mind 
(doubling, trailing, blurring, hazing) to more complex camera effects 
(looping, dodging) to very complex distortion effects (evidencing of 
the of the inner structure, sectioning.) The sound and visuals of 
Kasparov bend like the chassis of a car in a fatal crash. As 
amplification and speed do, the distortion increases so much that it 
becomes unbearable.«»
«»
There is an obsession with pipes in the demo. Pipes are everywhere. 
Pipes goes everywhere, they assault everything live raving vines and 
weave a savage embroidering all over the place wrapping everything 
up. Pipes reach everything. Pipes know everything. Pipes, rusty pipes, 
bolts, joints, a web, a maze of pipes going down to the very bottom of 
the earth and up to the tall chimneys piercing the skies; going across 
empty rooms and abandoned warehouses; sketching mysterious 
geometries, glyphs, spirals, whirlpools, vortexes; pipes tracing 
trajectories, casting obscure haruspex divinations«»
«»
During the entire execution of the demo, the camera will several times 
try to follow one of those pipes, like Ariadne in the labyrinth, trying to 
disentangle the skein, trying to arrive somewhere, where the pipes lead 
to. But those pipes have no end, and the perverse merry-go-round goes 
on and goes on and goes, the maze never ends and all that can be seen 
is more pipes, the factory, the industrial site, the wilderness, a void 
desert.«»
«»
Is Kasparov a demo? It is the same thing to those audiovisual jokes 
that a bunch of bored European teenager created jerking with their pop 
multimedia machines in the middle 80s? It is Kasparov a demo in the 
same way the crappy old good classic demos of dancing balls and zany 
music were demos? «»
«»
Let us recall again the ten traits of a demo I worked out before:«»
«»
1) Aesthetical extremism. Capability of  mediatic and sensorial overload.
«»
2) Audiovisual art involving at the same time music, image and code. «»
3) Music, image and code are the three facets of the same creative
momentum.«»
4) Use of a peculiar set of aesthetical and diegetic imagery. «»
5) Self-propelling baroque abundance, often finely mastered. «»
6) Auto-referential-ism. Dense atmosphere of sacredness and mystery. «»
7) Conservative artistic movement. Exact morphology and syntax to respect.
«»
8) Rule of the 100% original and 100% demoscene-related stuff.«»
9) Prevalence of vectorial techniques over the raster ones.«»
10) Melange of zest/tiredness as a distinguishing character. Decadent
charm.«»
«»
These were the ten essential traits I devised before, the ten 
characteristics a demo has to posses in order to be a real demo. «»
«»
Kasparov fully meets these specifications. These traits appear so clear 
and intense in Kasparov one might ask if by chance Kasparov 
shouldn't really be considered the first real demo ever done! 
Extremism, sensorial overload, quickness, mystery: these terms attain 
their real and full sense for the first time in Kasparov. And Kasparov 
does it 100% original and 100% vectorial.«»
«»
The structure of Kasparov is A-B-C-B-A:«»
«»
A) The demo starts showing the robot-pig drowsily and wobbly 
stumbling on.«»
«»
B) The factory is shown. At first the industrial site appears still, 
vaguely calm, surreal. Then the demo speeds up more and more, its 
visuals and sounds are gradually amplified and distorted. The camera 
follows the maze of pipes, squeezes into the bottomless dark tunnels 
and up to the vertiginous chimneys. The watcher is put on the rack and 
tortured. Music follows the visuals. «»
«»
C) The speed and the pain and the noise did overkill the watcher. 
Suddenly the demo jams on the brakes. The terrible acceleration is 
followed by sudden braking. The camera slows down exploring the 
heart of the factory, its very core. And after millions of identical pipes, 
of identical wares, of identical tunnels, of identical empty rooms, of 
never ending empty parking lots, it is shown a pillar, a single pillar, 
one out of a million of the enormous industrial site. This pillar, a pillar 
of an underground car park, a single dot in the huge complex, is 
different: a hand (a human hand?) did a spray a writing on it: «»
«»
"EVERYTHING IS UNDER CONTROL"«»
«»
This is the final sentence of Kasparov, the final truth to which the 
demo arrives after its mad exploration, its pain and its ravings. The 
truth of Kasparov tastes like one of those "short and obscure aphorism 
by Heraclites, similar to the sayings of an oracle."_41  It is a clear and 
undecipherable truth at the same time, the kind of sentences one can 
find several meanings to. But the Industrial throb starts to beat again. 
And the atrocious merry-go-round starts again.«»
«»
B) The mad roller-coaster speeds up again, but this time towards 
destruction. The levels of velocity and distortion and pain and 
deconstruction really breaks the limits. In the crazy final rush, an 
ultimate pipe is followed to the end, inside the very bowels of the 
earth, whilst everything shakes and crumbles, like if things were 
collapsing under the blast of a big earthquake.«»
«»
A) The quake is over. There's pistons creaking. The pig-robot appears 
again. It moves a couple of steps. Then collapses.«»
«»
The adventure of the pig-robot and its nightmare ends this way, in 
collapse, in death. The game ends in failure. The match is lost. 
Checkmate, buddy: Kasparov is by the way the name of the best living 
chess player of the world. Kasparov pig-robot dies: the same way the 
floating pig of Pink Floyd dies bumping into a barbed wire; the same 
way the pig protagonist of Downward Spiral dies; the same way the 
pig protagonist of Lidia Ravera's novel die. «»
«»
The Elitegroup (who in the end satisfactorily sign off with the 
comment "we are very good") did confection (probably without even 
meaning it) the horror. «»
«»
And I don't simply mean intellectual disquietude. I mean the real, 
concrete sensation one can feel watching the demo.«»
«»
Trying to watch the demo at full throttle, in a big computer screen, 
with the lights of the room off and a full volume audio can really be a 
hard and proving experience. The demo provokes in the watcher at 
least the classic roller coaster sickness; but if the watcher emotively 
tunes deeply in, a real disturb, vertigos or even scare can be felt. I tried 
to show, as a test, the demo to several friend of mine, none of them 
being familiar with the Scene and its art. All of them felt vertigos and 
suffered from sickness watching Kasparov, and as the speed of the 
demo increased some had to keep the eyes off the screen or to 
completely stop watching the demo. Those who watched it till the end 
did admit that it was a really disturbing and frightful experience. Some 
felt a sense of anguish and distress and forced me to turn off the 
computer and turn the room lights on or open the window. «»
«»
The relationship between music and images is a step further than the 
relationship that the two counterpart establish in the other demos, 
those being audiovisuals generated by interdependent and 
contemporaneous musical and icastic momenta. Yet in the other 
demos, even if it was impossible to artistically tell apart sonorous 
evocation from visual evocation, it was materially possible to sever 
images from sound, cutting living flesh, dismembering living bodies, 
butchering and slashing, slaughtering the very essence of the demo 
you could have: here a sequence of visuals without sounds, there a 
musical track. «»
«»
In Kasparov this separation would not have any sense. Sound and 
image are the two sides of the same sheet of paper. Sound is image and 
image is sound. When, for examples, the effects of distortion alter the 
image the sound is in the same moment twisted, because the distortion 
did not take place just on the visuals, but on the audiovisual. When the 
visuals speed up, the rhythm does the same, because they are the same 
thing: interdependence is here inter-essence.«»
«»
There is no "track" in Kasparov. In State of the Art there is a track and 
it is entitled Condom Corruption; in Mobile  there is a track and it is 
entitled Canal Green; in Moral Hard Candy there is a track and it is 
entitled Ox King Size Bull. In State of Mind the track was even a pre-
existing musical track, States of Mind, composed and performed by a 
real music group and present in a musical album you can buy in a 
music store. «»
«»
This does not happen in Kaparov, where even the categories of "sound 
effects", or "soundtrack" or "sonorisation" cannot apply. In Kasparov 
there are visual sounds which are sonorous images which enweave a 
nightmare. «»
«»
Just as the Blasphemy did confection the perfect dream, the Elitegroup 
did confection the perfect nightmare. «»
«»
«»
«»
§13. THE PRODUCT«»
«»
The emotive upheaval provoked by Kasparov put in the shadow one of 
the main qualities of the demo: its technical perfection. «»
«»
In the turning of the century, Kasparov really was the vanguard of 
computer art and did squeeze the very last drop out of pop computer. 
Kasparov was the technical limit. «»
«»
So it was in the anno domini 2000. Four years have passed since, and 
as I'm writing it is 2004. Four years in the computer science means a 
entire geological era, and so Kasparov too must face it inevitable fate 
of oblivion and obsolescence. Computer graphic gets every out better 
and better, the limit is constantly shattered so that it would be best to 
admit that there's no limit at all. «»
«»
And yet it must be remember that if the limit is constantly shattered, 
this is also thanks to vanguard experiments, and milestones still are 
there. «»
«»
In the textfile attached to their demo, Elitegroup put a paragraph 
entitled  "I have nothing to do with the demo scene, what the hell is all 
this?" that read:«»
«»
We have been informed that our demo was uploaded at 3dfiles.com, 
and some people who visit 3dfiles.com may be confused by this 
strange release and even stranger readme file:«»
«»
There is a thing called demo-scene that exists for more then 15 years 
now, where young people start using their computers (C64, Amiga, 
PC, anything with a keyboard will do) for creating strange but cool 
programs like this, just for fun and competition, instead of just playing 
games. These people meet several times a year at a big so-called 
"parties" where some of them compete each other with
their latest production.«»
«»
Kasparov was released at "The Party 99" in Denmark and won the first 
place in the category "3d accelerated pc".«»
«»
We are an elite demo group called "Elitegroup" (nothing to do with a 
mainboard manufacturer that uses the same name). Elitegroup is surely 
not representative for style and behavour in the scene,
because we are different and because we are the best.«»
«»
If you are interested in seeing more peaces of audiovisual 
noninteractive computer entertainment visit one of the [many 
demoscene related] pages.«»
«»
The Elitegroup stated once more a brief manifesto of the Scene, like 
those I quoted at the beginning of my report. The paragraph is meant 
for those who "have nothing to do with the demo scene": Kasparov did 
even temporarily broke the Scene reticence and autoreferentialism that 
kept it a world apart. Kasparov started to be shipped with new 
machines and vendors used to test the new hardware potentiality with 
this demo, the same way several generations of hi-fi fans tested their 
systems out with The Dark Side of the Moon by Pink Floyd. This 
means that Kasparov is a milestone, epitomising a whole era, standing 
as a turning point. «»
«»
An entire virtual world aimed to an artistic purpose was generated in a 
completely vectorial way. The quality of the visuals was naturalistic 
and sound was of the purest. This was done on pop machines that 
anybody can buy and utilise. And all this in just 10 MB of size, 
whereas a bitmap audiovisual of the same time length would be 1000 
MB (1 GB) big: 100 times bigger, 100 times heavier, weighing down 
100 times more the system.«»
«»
Kasparov also started a new Scene fashion, a vogue. The same way 
there ware the Classic Demos, the Kaleidoscopic Demos, the Pardo's 
style Demos, Kasparov showed a new way to create a demo: creating a 
virtual world, exploring it and finalising this to an artistic focal point.«»
«»
The Elitegroup sign their textfile off saying: "Have fun enjoying the 
best demo ever made, and try to create better ones if you can!"«»
«»
The Scene could not help accepting this challenge: and it rabidly did. 
After the first derogatory (and maybe a bit envious) reaction, the 
Sceners metabolised Kasparov results and tried themselves out to 
equal or surpass the Elitegroup success. «»
«»
This was obviously not long to come. Sceners recreated Kasparov with 
even smaller size and lesser resource need, they make a parody out of 
it. Just ten month after the Elitegroup release the French Epidemic in 
just 300 KB (33 times smaller than Kasparov) did a parody of 
Kaparov, shattering Elitegroup results and grandeur, and mockingly 
signing off "We are very cool!" as a reply to Elitegroup statement "We 
are very good."_42 «»
«»
But a masterpiece has to be surpassed by a masterpiece. And it was. At 
the Party-X the tenth party in the history of the Scene, the German 
group of the Farb-raush had to have their share of victory producing 
another masterwork, The Product.«»
«»
In just 64 KB, 200 times lesser than Kasparov and 20000 times lesser 
than a bitmap audiovisual of the same length, The Product was an 
audiovisual of unspeakable beauty.«»
«»
Following the lesson of Kasparov the demo creates virtual worlds and 
focalise them to an artistic purpose. This does not consist in evoking 
horror, but in evoking beauty, «»
«»
The proposal of The Product is a "travel in time" across the "story of a 
place". This place is once again a structure, a complex, a lone building 
in the desert. But this is not horror palace. It is an enchanted castle; 
and we are watching to its story across the times. «»
«»
At first, it is a barbaric citadel within a forest: we could expect to see 
Vercingetorix or a German barbaric chief to pop his head out of it! 
Then it is a medieval castle; then it is a wonderful gothic cathedral 
with enchanting stained-glass windows; then its is a tunnel of light 
(which we may interpret as a time jump to the future) and then it 
becomes a lone factory (as seen in Kasparov); then again there is a 
further step and it is a futuristic construction very beautiful and 
fascinating. «»
«»
Farb-rausch flipped over Kasparov plot: to the architectonic nightmare 
of the Elitegroup, the Farb-rausch replied and opposed the 
architectonic delight of The Product.«»
«»
The Product then shatters Kasparov not only in a technical way, but 
artistically, conceptually and morally, revolting to the Elitegroup 
sombre tyranny and to the house of pain built by them.«»
«»
The demo seems to say: "The nightmare is just a passing phase; beauty 
rules in the story of the world and of time, beauty triumphed and will 
triumph." A citadel, a castle, a spending cathedral: then, for a twinkle 
of the eye the collapse, the nightmare of the factory; but in the end the 
beautiful and harmonic futuristic monument shows that the nightmare 
is over, that beauty and harmony will overcome. The way out of the 
labyrinth is found. The Product is beauty over everything, and it is not 
a poisoning beauty like it was in Moral Hard Candy; it is 
architectonical beauty, a constructed, sought, sweated for, beauty; it is 
the beauty of civilisation, the beauty forged from man for man: the 
kind of beauty technological man will in the end create, why not, even 
with a demo. «»
«»
As the Scene ultimate purpouse is beauty, as the Scene started out to 
create beautiful things, it seems obvious to me to end this dissertation 
here. «»
«»
Watching to the beauty that The Product bestows to us one can't help 
thinking to one of the first manifestoes of the Scene: "Demos are made 
because people want to construct something that looks good."_43 «»
«»
And they did. «»
«»
«»
«»
§14. SHORT - TERM CONCLUSIONS«»
«»
In its fifteen years of life the Scene has been able to compose hymns to 
life (State of the Art), graceful Freudian poetry (9 Fingers), visual jazz 
(Mobile.) It filmed urban odysseys (242) and enjoyed itself with 
juggling (Hardwired.) It screamed out anarchic revolt (State of Mind) 
and whispered crepuscular historical recollections (Hebst 77.) It 
confectioned the perfect dream (Moral Hard Candy) and the perfect 
nightmare (Kasparov). With The Product it stated once more the 
prevalence of beauty over all. «»
«»
We can't risk previsions. Electronic arts is surely bound to evolve and 
diffuse with a strength and a momentum we can even barely think of. 
But the Scene is not electronic art in toto. The audiovisuals created by 
the Scene represent just a small set in the bigger set of the whole 
electronic art. «»
«»
The Scene is a definite artistic movement with a marked self-
conscience. Its spontaneous and lively nature and its great artistic 
achievements make it one of the artistic phenomena of most 
momentum in comparison with other artistic and expressive 
experiments and movements generally operating in the all-embracing 
definition of "electronic art." The Scene is one the brightest fronts of 
electronic art and experimentation, far brighter than many official and 
pompous movements or experiments. «»
«»
The Scene originated spontaneously, without any specific artistic aim 
or protest: yet it has been able to create more art and better art than the 
bored and vainglorious professional artists. Moreover, it has been able 
to tame a whole technological dimension, the pop computerisation, 
and to bent it to expression and art. «»
«»
The Scene sprung as the result of a contingency; it yet was able to step 
over its pre-artistic past and to work on the artistic and expressive 
languages. This work produced a series of masterpieces, that, 
considering the shy and underground nature of the movement of the 
Scene are yet hidden treasures, art unknown to the most.«»
«»
The Scene and the Art of the Scene do remain unknown to the most. 
The Scene continues to be a dish for the happy few, a liturgy for 
initiated sectarians and a treasure for a few gold diggers._44 «»
«»
The brightness of its artistic results is yet mirrored in many other 
domains of pop culture and of audiovisual art that adopt solutions 
experimented by the Scene a lot of time before they entered a 
mainstream realm.«»
«»
The Scene is pure artistic force, a powerful engine of expression. Its 
ultimate nature seems to be the mediatic reverie, the short-circuital 
blast, the sensorial overload; according to the cyberpunk moral and 
aesthetics the blast is provoked but at the same time controlled, the fire 
is not a wild fire but a firework. Child of chaos, the Scene masters 
chaos, working poetry and life and beauty out of it. «»
«»
Let strange flowers blossom- and electric butterflies. (Rimbaud)«»
«»
Catania, August 2004«»
Davide Pappalardo«»
deadpoet@tin.it«»
«»
----«»
notes:«»
«»
1 The Hacker Demo  Scene and its Cultural Artefacts by George 
Borzyskowski, University of Perth, Western Australia, on the internet 
at http://multimedia.design.curtin.edu.au/research/demoscene.pdf «»
«»
2 The Real Multimedia Revolution by Manos Konstantiniadis, 
http://noesis.eos.gr/guybrush/amiga/index.html.«»
«»
3 alt.sys.amiga.Demos FAQ July 1996 by Simon Carless, 
http://www.sgol.it/amiga/main/scene/FAQ.html«»
«»
4 Orange Juice FAQ, http://www.ojuice.net/faq.htm«»
«»
5 alt.sys.amiga.Demos FAQ July 1996, cit.«»
«»
6 alt.sys.amiga.Demos FAQ July 1996, cit.«»
«»
7 Orange Juice FAQ. cit.«»
«»
8 Orange Juice FAQ. cit.«»
«»
9 PC Demos FAQ, http://www.oldskool.org/Demos/pc/pcDemos.faq«»
«»
10 Demoscene Rewievs. old website not to be found anymore (it was 
at http://w1.2639.telia.com/~u263902360/ then at 
http://home.enitel.no/olekolsen/ then it was lost)«»
«»
11 The Hacker Demo Scene and its Cultural Artefacts, cit,  p.1«»
«»
12 Ivi  pp. 24 e 25«»
«»
13 For example Aminet achives, 
http://wuarchive.wustl.edu/~aminet/dirs/tree_mods.html«»
«»
14 Principles of Demo Spirit, by Tim Juretski aka Skandor of 
Xperience, 
http://www.cfxweb.net/modules.php?name=News&file=article&sid=2
15«»
«»
15 Commercial Mp3 in Demos, by Ohad "Civax" Barzillay. 
http://www.cfxweb.net/articles/mp3inDemos/«»
«»
16 The Hacker Demo Scene and its Cultural Artefacts, cit, pp. 23 e 24«»
«»
17 State of the Art, on Pouët.net, 
http://www.pouet.net/prod.php?which=99&howmanycomments=-1«»
«»
18 Spaceballs - The Story, http://spaceballs.planet-d.net/history.html«»
«»
19 And I have to mention here the mod from Hardwired, entitled 
Global Trash and composed by the Scene musician Jesper Kyd from 
Crionics, which is beautiful and exciting. .«»
«»
20 Woman of State of the Art, on Raw#5, http://spaceballs.planet-
d.net/dancer.html«»
«»
21 Spaceballs - The Story, cit.«»
«»
22 Principles of Demo Spirit, cit.«»
«»
23 Ibid.«»
«»
24 Ibid. The essay by Tim Juretski is very interesting and detailed and 
exhaustive and I forward to it for further reading. Juretski moreover 
supplies some opinions and suggestions regarding demo making and 
the future of the Scene, not all of them the author of the present paper 
agrees with. «»
«»
25 Ibid.«»
«»
26 States of Mind by Senser; lyrics: «»
«»
I am tireless, sub zero, comin' from the wireless.«»
Won't be no scenery, no part of the machinery.«»
I go on and on, but never below,«»
so now you see me and know. You can check it and go«»
'cause I'm so bored that I can't even pretend no more,«»
it's so pathetic that I'm rolling around on the floor«»
laughing - at one big gag«»
and every now and then they pull another rabbit out of the bag«»
of sad diversions, useless tedious excursions,«»
roll into unrealistic, crypto-fascistic,«»
comedy doctrine. Kick the ballistics«»
again and again and again, just say when«»
ya had enough, sad enough or mad enough«»
to do something simple and kind,«»
now is the time«»
a change of state of mind.«»
«»
I am a loner, a zoner. I utilize the microphone«»
and if they try a tap I leave 'em hangin' on the telephone.«»
They're wasted, so wasted, so«»
they're waiting for the visitors so they can go and try again«»
on the next step, on the next one.«»
Come on and get some, jet some, static,«»
solid-state, automatic.«»
Sporadic and random - 'cause nobody planned 'em.«»
Anarchy, free thought can't be bought,«»
so disregard the lessons and the shit you've been taught.«»
I'm saying it and now they're playing it to me«»
larger than life every day and this is what they say:«»
«»
"Shut your mouth and get back in line«»
and if you don't like it -«»
well it suits us just fine.«»
WE pull the levers«»
WE hold the strings«»
and these are just a few of our favourite things.«»
Learn the words of the company song«»
'what IS right IS right IS strong'.«»
Come on children all sing along«»
'cause if you think you can change«»
you were never more wrong."«»
«»
No fuck that - you won't take me«»
you won't break me and you'll never make me«»
step in line, step march in time.«»
Well you can violate my body but my soul is still mine.«»
You must think that I'm fucking stupid, man,«»
if you think I'm gonna hang with the program,«»
some fool schedule.«»
I don't give a shit about what is or isn't cool.«»
I make the rules, I stand alone«»
and if they try a tap I leave 'em hangin' on the telephone.«»
«»
One of these days I'm gonna get sectioned,«»
I bet they even say it's for my own protection.«»
Rejection leads straight to correction.«»
Look out, here comes a strange injection...«»
They've got a drug to numb my erection,«»
but they won't take this from me:«»
My State of Mind.«»
«»
27 This website is not online anymore, Bomb! not being currently 
active. It is online and constantly updated the very well made and 
glamorous Carlos Pardo's site instead, http://www.m4de.com . This 
site deals however mainly with his activity as a freelance designer and 
is only in a very small part devoted to the Scene.  «»
«»
28 As reported in the text file packaged with the demo. 
Lyrics in German, original by Degenhardt, edited by Noize:«»
«»
wir singen nicht fuer euch:«»
die ihr bis zum rand voller gefuehlsmatsch steht«»
die ihr nichts so hasst wie eure eigenen verschwerten leiber«»
und nicht fuer euch:«»
ihr mit der architektenideologie«»
ihr frankophilen kaeselutscher«»
nein nicht fuer euch«»
«»
wir singen nicht fuer euch:«»
ihr, die ihr hier nur lebt weil hier zuviel und anderswo zuwenig brot «»
herrumliegt«»
tempelstufenhocker«»
ihr die ihr nichts so liebt wie eure eigenen bemalten baeuche«»
von bloedem haschisch grinsend eure gesetzlosen gesetze vor euch«» 
hinlallt.«»
nein, fuer euch nicht.«»
«»
ich singe fuer euch:«»
die ihr die feige heldenweisheit vom sogenanten laufe der welt und «»
dessen unabaenderbarkeit in den wind schlagt«»
und einfach ausprobiert was richtig laeuft.«»
die ihr den lack mit dem die architekten ueberpinselt runterbrennt, von «»
allem rissigen gebaelk.«»
fuer euch:«»
die ihr nicht auf tempelstufen hocken wollt,«»
solange der schlagstock noch die weisse freiheit regelt,«»
napalm noch die speise fuer die armen ist.«»
ich sing´ fuer euch.«»
«»
English translation (by Shiva):«»
«»
we do not sing for you:«»
you, who are full of emotional mud«»
you, who do not hate anything as much as your own fat bodies«»
and not for you:«»
you, with your architects ideology«»
you, francophile cheese lickers«»
«»
we do not sing for you:«»
you, who only live because there is too little bread elsewhere«»
temple stair sitters«»
you, who do not love anything as much as your own painted bellies«»
of dumb dope smiling, muttering your lawless laws«»
no, not for you«»
«»
i sing for you:«»
you, who disregard the cowardly hero's wisdom of the unchangeable «»
way of the world«»
and just try out what is right«»
you, who burn the color, the architects painted over with, away from «»
decaying buildings«»
for you:«»
you, who do not want to sit on temple stairs,«»
as long as batons regulate the white freedom,«»
and napalm is still food for poor.«»
i sing for you.«»
«»
29 Commercial Mp3 in Demos.Cit. «»
«»
30 Ibid.«»
«»
31 Ibid.«» 
«»
32 Ibid.«»
«»
33 Ibid.«»
«»
34 The Modern Experimental Music-Scene, 
http://www.ojuice.net/1714/article.htm «»
«»
35 http://www.noerror.org«»
«»
36 Claudio Quarantotto, Dizionario della Musica Pop & Rock,1994, 
Rome, Newton Compton, p. 44«»
«»
37 Even if it should be better said: "of the genre of music which it 
creates and defines"«»
«»
38 Paolo Bertrando, Una Suite in Rosa, in Bertrando, Pink Floyd, 
Arcana«»

39 A part for a swarm of insect-robots and for a couple of spider-
repairer-robots appearing in two rapid scenes in the course of the 
demo.«»
«»
40 It is to be kept in mind that the "squeezing", the "penetration", the 
"wandering" into tunnels or narrow passages is one of the leading 
symbolic and icastic conceptual cluster of the scene imagery, as I 
pointed out in the paragraph §9. «»
«»
41 Balducci, Storia del Pensiero Umano, Cremonese, Castello 1987, 
p.69«»
«»
42 Anyhow, French always do like to take the piss out of Germans, 
don't they? ;) «»
«»
43 alt.sys.amiga.Demos FAQ July 1996, cit.«»
«»
44 I got in touch with a Scener, Tim Juretzki (author of the article 
Principles of Demo Spirit) and I said to him that I was going to write a 
treatise on the Scene: "This is incredible!" he replied "I've never heard 
about anybody examining the scene scientifically. [...] I really should 
have studied at an Italian university! Well, to be honest, I once read a 
study [he probably refers to Borzyskowski] which dealt with the 
motivations of demo authors, but that was sociological stuff and, thus, 
boring... :)"«»
«»
«»
«»
yet more text! «»
«»
------------------------------«»
version history and to-do list«»
------------------------------«»
«»
1.0, January 2001. First version.«»
«»
1.1, January 2002. Several corrections and updates made. Text is released
as part of a broader study entitled "Music and image: contaminations
of languages" about modern forms of audiovisual art, registered and published
in limited edition by the University of Catania.«»
«»
1.2, January 2004. Text translated from Italian to English, corrections and 
updates made.«»
«»
1.3, August 2004. Conversion to basic-text layout, minor corrections and 
updates. This version.«»
«»
to-do list:«»
«»
* Analyse the similarity between the activist-industrial-film of the 60s
(for example "British Sound" by J.-L. Godard) and industrial-punk demos like 
"State of Mind" by Bomb! or "Kasparov" by Elitegroup.«»
«»
* Cite the challenge between the Russian chess-player Kasparov and the
computer Deep Blue in 1999 in the chapter "Kasparov".«»
«»
* Broaden the analysis of the influence of the demo-art in other art-forms and
medias.«»
«»
* Shag that gorge blonde chick who lives next door. :)«»
«»
«»
«»
------------------------------«»
a note on the author (who am I) «»
------------------------------«»
«»
I'm 28 and I'm from Catania, a great town in Sicily. I started to work in 
cultural journalism at the beginning of the 90s, working in the regional 
newspaper "La Sicilia" and in the national magazine "Art Magazine",
Milan.«»
«»
I'm into the scene since the beginning of the 90s as well, when I fell in love 
with it. My Amiga 500, diskette swapping during break-time at school, 
cyberparties at night, ahh, those were the days!«»
«»
In the late 90s I took off for England, a country I love, living at first 
in Oxford, then in London, then in Exeter where I worked and attended courses 
at the University of Exeter.«»
«»
Being amongst the finalists of the national script-writing contest 
"Premio Solinas" I moved to Rome and started working for the cinema, 
which is what I'm currently doing, sharing my time between Rome and
Catania.«»
«»
«»
«»
...
        well that's all folks
                if you're reading these lines you found your way 
throughout 
                the text, or maybe you just scrolled it out to the bottom!
                
                here it is. 

                cheers for now!
                
                signing off, 
                Davide          
        
                

                -x-moving to Montana soon, gonna be a dental floss tycoon-
x-
                        (Frank Zappa)






                ---end of text---«»
«»
«e»