ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
Twilight of the chiptunes«»
«»
«c3»By KAM_ of IRIS«»
«»«c2»«as»
I'm wondering sometimes, in which direction the demoscene should turn. What is 
more important - modernity, or a return to the roots, to the beginning? And then 
I realize, that such adebate is senseless, because every man who creates 
something chose for himself the field of his activity, where he can make 
progress, where he can evolve. Everyone also wants to have some receivers of 
their productions. Everyone wants to show their output to a wider group of 
people, who will get acquainted with the stuff and will make a review. But does 
everybody get such a possibility? It depends...«»
«»
I got no idea when it started nor who started making music for one hundred 
percent on a personal computer, without any external devices, without real 
instruments. You just needed to launch a suitable application and then, if you 
had some prepared sounds, you could start writing music. I wasn't present in 
this world, when all this was started. The only thing I know is the date of the 
oldest .sid tunes from my collection - the beginning of the eighties {'80}. 
Pioneers of computer music were on the spot. Commodore, Spectrum and Atari users 
started to compose their little pieces of art. And the machine was put through 
its paces.«»
«»
The first home/personal computers were equipped with rather modest sound 
systems. ;) Musicians did not have samples, they only had synthetic sounds, 
characteristic for each machine. And what can I say – hemmed inside those poor 
three channels, they were creating so little, but - simultaneously - so huge 
pieces of music, impressing people even today. There was no place for bullshit, 
you could not rip sequences from Prodigy and then put them directly into the 
module. In the matter of sound there was not too much to do. Yes - skilful 
operating with filters still can kick my ass. But it has limitations. The most 
important aspect of the music were melodies, themes, ideas of the musician. Not 
multiple echoes, reverbs or phasers - although, the musicians were probably 
dreaming about them. For me classic chiptunes are indicators of the real value 
of the scene-musician, of his versability. But what are those 'classic 
chiptunes'? Isn't the chip just chip?...«»
«»
So, here it is - the dilemma. :) How to classify chiptunes today? Which tunes 
can we name thus, and which should we not name like that? A classification tells 
us that the real chips are going extinct these days. We can say 'thank you' for 
this way of things to the guy, who declared, that chiptunes are just small-sized 
pieces of music. What an idiot could simplify things in such a way? No idea. But 
I know that the chiptune competitions, that aren't frequently present on the 
parties these days, are flooded with tunes that aren't even similar to the plain 
chip. ‘But would you tell at last tell us what the fuck the right chiptune is?!’ 
Alright, alright. ;)«»
«»
I will not hide the fact, that I'm quite conservative in the matter of 
chiptunes. For me - it is a tune that comes close with its sound to the 
archetype, which are C64, Speccy, or the little Atari. That is the true 
philosophy of this oldschool type of music! There is a difference between 
something that sounds like a chip on one hand, and a tribute on the other. In 
the meantime, in every chiptune compo we'll find pieces that are composed with 
the competition's technical criteria - their size is small (usually < 32 kb) and 
they are saved in one of the few admissible file formats (MOD, XM, IT, S3M). But 
they aren't fulfilling the essential requirements - very frequently there is 
nothing from the chip in them!«»
«»
Are those modules bad by default? No, not at all! I'm not angry because they 
exist; some of them are really interesting - technically as well as musically, I 
have respect for their authors. I'm rather pissed off however, 'cause they are 
kicked into the chiptune competitions and the various people treat them like 
chips. A special, separated category for those tunes should be created - 
something like a 'tiny music' compo. There could be a category for musicians, 
who want to show us how much they can put into dozen of kilobytes. And the 
'chiptune' category should remain reserved for those, who want to operate with 
oldschool synthetic sounds. You might maybe ask - how do I write those 'real' 
chiptunes in that case? It's very easy! There is a fabulous little program for 
the classic AmigaOS and it’s doing something like SID "emulation" - it's the 
well-known AHX Sound System from Abyss. You can even cut and loop samples, as 
ancient masters like 4-mat, or Emax (his synthetic sound were really convincing) 
were doing. Also, there is always a possibility to use sampled AHX, C64 or 
Spectrum sounds. The file size will be huge? Who cares! Let it be even mp3 or 
ogg - synthetic sound is the most important thing. Therefore I think that the 
rules of various chiptune competitions could be appeased, at least partly. What 
we got now is suitable for me, but I'm using AHX. And the musicians who are 
using formats like MOD, IT or XM may want to use sampled synthetic sounds. They 
have to refrain from using them as it is now, in favour of 32 byte farts, 
because of... Yeah, because of what? Besides - I'm quite disappointed that the 
majority of chiptune compos organizers are overlooking the '.THX' format. Maybe 
it is not so popular as it was a few years ago (why do you think that is?), but 
there is a handful of people using it these days (see Symphony04 chiptune folder 
on scene.org for example).«»
«»
The development of electronic music in the last years showed that chips aren't 
only the domain of the demoscene. Some commercial artists have done tracks based 
on fine synthetic sounds. Let's mention Orbital or Aphex Twin. The thing that is 
close to being forgotten on the demoscene, is very slowly intercepted by the 
world of show-business. I think that chips will become really trendy soon. :) 
Besides, I see that computer musicians are making really cool chiptune tributes 
- those are normal pieces of music, but there are synthetic samples used in 
them. You can listen to the soundtrack from the "Platypus" game (Windows; 
besides, it's a really brilliant game!) for example. I also want to recommend  a 
great cover of a "Highway to Hell" by AC/DC, which was composed by 
Skyrunner/Vantage^Brain Control - a fabulous combination of an original idea and 
nice chiptune-like samples was the reason why the "Highway to Chipland" came 
first in mp3/ogg music compo at tUM03. And maybe this is the future of the 
chips?«»
«»
After all - I think that the chiptune formula is not exhausted. There's still a 
place for creating something that will be original, for something, that will be 
so nice for your ears. Or simply for something that will just be a great 
oldschool tune. I believe in that and I'll try to show it in my humble 
productions as long as I will have some ideas and strength. I only hope that I 
will not be alone on that battlefield.«»
«»
«e»
