ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
LIFE WITHOUT THE SCENE?«»
«»
«c3»By Darkhawk of IRIS«»
«c2»«»«as»
Are you feeling a bit sad and depressed after reading Wade's article about
us all? Maybe you feel he has hit some sore spots? Then let me try to
shortly write why all of Wade's opinions on this matter are mostly in his
own head, written to and for himself.«»
«»
It would seem that Wade at last has come to despise his way of living a
scenish life, seeing it as something unhealthy and pointless. Fair enough,
he recognized this and decided to bail out. However, while bailing out, he
also had to write the most aggressive, insulting, direct and
unmediated attack on most of the current sceners that I have ever 
witnessed. Naturally, as an editor, I stand in awe of the aggressiveness 
inherent in that article, but at the same time, it is a very unfounded and 
needlessly black & white article, very much a picture of Wade's feelings on the 
matter, but less so an accurate picture of the scene.«»
«»
«c4»STEREOTYPICAL, UNHEALTHY AND DRUNK SCENERS«»
«c2»«»
Apparently Wade has become obsessed with health, in order to
compensate for his previous unhealthy lifestyle, a sort of overcompensation
from one extreme to the other, which is not that uncommon and might indeed
teach you the most about both worlds. However, now Wade sees everybody else 
in the scene as being the very image of himself that he despised. Wade has
seen the light, but the rest of us sad losers have not. «»
«»
Clearly, Wade has (now) developed some strong ideas about being healthy,
and clearly, sitting in front of a computer all day long is not that
healthy, but I don't know very many, if any, in the Amiga scene, who sits in
front of his computer all day eating chips and drinking cola. We have all
become older, and as we became older, life sneaked in here and there, other
things were seen as important or even more important as the scene, especially so 
since our beloved platform died from underneath us, until
now, when I think it is clear to everybody that the scene is just a
small-time hobby for virtually all (Amiga) sceners. Indeed, I pride myself
on knowing and meeting a great many of these sceners, and the majority
don't strike me as being very nerdish and/or fat at all. Sceners I know
have a great many different hobbies, many of these physical, they have a
huge network of friends outside the scene, and they all have girlfriends.
Heck, some even have children now, and some are married.«»
«»
Where have all the unhealthy, pale, chronically depressed, socially
awkward, sexually inexperienced sceners gone? Where they ever here? Well,
at some point yes, but I've always seen sceners as more healthy, diverse
and mentally stable than the vast majority of computer users we shared
parties with up through the nineties. Those fat-asses sitting for hours
watching GIF probably did not have a very fulfilling life, and too bad for
them, but I can't see why Wade on the whole sees the scene as the same.«»
«»
Are sceners drunk? Hell yeah, and some more than others, but I really like
the drunk aspects of scening. Parties without booze have been the most
boring ones, the ones least social. Wade sees boozing sceners as something
bad, and at the same time regards us as antisocial, yet the culture we
have evolved is very social indeed, with people meeting, discussing things,
becoming friends and having a good time boozing too. If Wade sees sceners
as stereotypically asocial, boring nerds, he should visit a scene party
like Breakpoint and be amazed at the diversity, friendliness and general
happiness to be experienced there. Yeah, some might wrestle naked on stage,
but I see that as an added bonus, something affirming life, not denying it,
if I have to use such big words.«»
«»
When these sceners go home from Breakpoint, they arrive home, not to an
empty room with a glowing computer screen and some moldy chips, but to 
decorated apartments, a girlfriend ready to greet them, friends on the 
phone wanting to know whether they had a good trip, and a job waiting for 
them the following day. «»
«»
However, to quote Wade, most sceners are: "«c1»just like all the other socially 
stunted nerds shrinking away from the world. Many are unfit and unhealthy, 
of poor appearance and hygiene and are destined to remain at the bottom 
rung of the social ladder until they make the effort to change".«»
«c2»«»
You sound increasingly like a nazi ideologue there, quite well done. You 
also sound like someone who desperately wants to be saved and at the same 
time wants to have as much distance to your old life as possible. 
Everything was bad then, and everything is good now. You might run into the 
same feelings in your new life that you had in your old, if you don't take 
care. What will then be the next big truth you will subscribe to, after you 
have used up and flamed your current one?«»
«»
«c4»INANE DISCUSSIONS AND POINTLESS WORK«»
«c1»«»
'I quit the scene because I don't want my mind and body to stagnate 
behind a computer, reading and contributing to inane topics on websites, 
inane productions and inane conversations.'«»
«c2»«»
If you find the discussions on Pouet inane, why have them? I know plenty of
sceners who don't discuss things at Pouet, and who don't flame each other
on the IRC. I guess that would actually be the majority. Also, what matters
most in life is a somewhat subjective thing in many regards. For me, it
matters more to watch old demos than to have fashion sense, to name
something. For you, especially now, it is the opposite. Fair enough, but
there's no reason to make it sound like you have seen THE Light, the
absolute, etc., in some of these things you currently prefer. I'm not
saying that all things are equal or relativistic, but some things clearly are. 
Good for you if you have found something you consider more genuine and
True, but don't make the mistake to think that everybody who hasn't
developed the same fashion sense as you is a looser. Actually, you come
across as someone who has lived his entire life without something, and
then, when you get it, or begin to grasp this new thing, you change totally, 
merge into the new thing completely and disregard your old life. That doesn't 
sound like THE Truth either. «»
«»
Also, I know you've had and contributed to more than inane discussions,
both in articles and on the IRC. You might want to distance yourself now,
because it makes you feel better, but everything was not all that bad, was
it? Maybe the truth is in the eye of the beholder. And maybe the scene
you detested was the one you saw and knew in the mirror, not the real
existing scene? Maybe. «»
«»
«c4»DIVERSITY AND LIFE«»
«c1»«»
'When you think about how much dedication and effort goes into making demos 
it's insane! I came to realise that any person with this much dedication 
has outstanding potential to achieve whatever they set their mind to.'«»
«c2»«»
Yes, that is my impression too, and being in touch with old and legendary
ex. sceners, I know that they can indeed do whatever they want, and that 
their time in the scene has taught them about focus and cooperation. These
people have burning interests that they strive to better throughout their
life, which give them an easy time when they have to accomplish a set
goal. Yet another aspect that is positive about the scene. You learn a lot
about your interest and about both setting and realizing goals. Of course,
you also learn how to booze, which is another invaluable lesson in life.«»
«»
«c1»'In years to come, I don't want my fondest memories framed by a computer 
monitor'.«»
«c2»«»
Some of my fondest memories are indeed framed by a monitor, and I wouldn't want 
to be without them. A lot of old Amiga games and demos are running around inside 
my head, connected with feelings of deep affection and joy. I also remember the
other faces, sitting there together with me, staring at the monitor, sharing my 
joy, and right now, in the present, sharing my fond memories. There is nothing 
wrong or destructive in that, on the contrary. It has given me something I 
wouldn't want to be without, something that has really shaped me, for better or 
for worse. For the better I think.«»
«»
I've met a lot of people, developed tolerance early on in my life, seen the
diversity, seen and felt creativity on an almost spiritual level, I've
shared joys and sorrows in the scene, I've run around at rented
summer cottages playing soccer with my group mates. I've watched good
friends come and go from the scene yet staying in touch, I've been lying
senseless yet content in a pool of puke at a great party. I have been
sitting until the early morning hours designing a demo with an exhausted
coder, I've been a part of winning competitions, and I've touched 
Infinity watching demo-competitions. All this and more I've done while also
maintaining a life apart from the scene, with hobbies, interests and other
burning passions.«»
«»
And you know what? I'm not the only one.«»
«»
«e»