ecnew.font,8
«»
«c1»«ac»
Wade of Fearmoths?«»
«»
«c3»By Wade«»
«c2»«»«as»
There have been rumours floating around the scene that I am somehow involved 
with The Fearmoths, so let’s get down to the facts before some ill-informed 
lunatic starts trying to bomb my email address with viruses and hate
mail.«»
«»
There is truth to the rumour. In fact, I became friends with Shane some years 
ago and when he asked if he could use some of my unused graphics and designs I 
figured it would do no harm, just as long as he didn't credit me for them. At 
this time I was not a member of Fearmoths - merely a fan and anonymous donor of 
graphics and design ideas. Eventually, Shane managed to convince more anonymous 
sceners to join the Fearmoths under false handles, and so I decided to do the 
same and my alter ego, Regicide, was born.«»
«»
I knew most of the scene hated Shane, but he won me over with his creative and 
fun scene philosophy. The entire time I was a member of established groups, 
abiding by scene rules and trying to gain a reputation as a legitimate scener 
felt like a chore. The rules of the scene, the critics, the accusations of 
scanning, the deadlines, lack of appreciation, cancelled projects and all the 
rest of this hassle drained every hint of enjoyment from the scene! The 
Fearmoths, on the other hand, were focused on creatively expressing themselves 
and having fun, which is all I wanted from the scene ever since watching 
Budbrain Megademo in the early 90s. Sure, their demos have low production 
quality and are technically poor, but that's why they were so fun to make! It 
was good that we could forget the technical considerations and concentrate on 
things like plots, philosophies, humour and atmosphere. What's more, these 
productions were unpredictable and entertaining to watch, which is a rare 
quality in demos.«»
«»
For the record, these are the Fearmoths prods I worked on and what I 
contributed:«»
«»
TRSI is Dead - Supplied some anims.«»
Showtime promo - Design. «»
Bombfire Night - Opening credits.«»
Ban the Orphan - Various 2d gfx, including some overlays, text and photo 
manipulations.«»
The Little Things - The original poem.«»
Alter Ego - Most 2d gfx/design, some 3d, the plot and storyboard (with input 
from Jeremy - aka Ultimate Gas).«»
The Ear Brothers - All gfx, sprites and design.«»
The Chair - I came up with the idea of an ironic minimalist demo intended to
mock armchair art critics and Jeremy gave life to the idea. «»
«»
As individuals, Shane and I both shared a joy of provoking reactions from the 
scene, albeit via opposite extremes. 'Wade' was also very much a persona or 
character - a harsh critic and upholder of oldschool values, who got reactions 
by dramatising the seriousness and importance of the scene. Shane, however, took 
the opposite route in breaking the rules, undermining oldschool values and 
poking fun at sceners like 'Wade' and anybody else who dedicated valuable years 
of their life towards the scene. It was so easy to hate Shane for this after all 
the work I'd put into my scene life, yet so hard not to appreciate his satirical 
humour and laugh at all the reactions he was getting. Then, of course, there was 
the bizarre and unfathomable side to Shane's character that went beyond the 
scene and varied from hilarious to quite disturbing.«» 
«»
It has taken me until now to reveal my connection because A) I had friends on 
the scene who hate Shane, B) I was trying to uphold a reputation as a serious 
scener, C) The Amiga virus incident, which Shane knows I was not happy about. 
However, my scene ambitions are long behind me now so it doesn't matter who 
knows or what they think. I won't rule out working on another Fearmoths 
production someday, but right now I am inactive as a scener and prefer to avoid 
using my computer as much as possible (as covered in another article).«»
«»
I have a lot of admiration for the members of The Fearmoths not only as sceners, 
but as people -particularly Shane, Rahman and Ultimate Gas who I wish great 
success with their ideas and talents. «»
«»
Since writing this article, my good scene friend Darkus has also revealed his 
involvement in The Fearmoths having participated under the handle 'Rahman'. 
Darkus and I worked very closely on Alter Ego with him providing the music 
(working with very specific timing) and provided music for the Ear Brothers 
demo. I have since provided a new layout for the new upcoming Fearmoths website, 
which is looking to mark the group's first steps away from the demo scene and 
into the field of humour, eccentricity and practical jokes.«»
«»
«e»