ecnew.font,8
«»
«ac»«c1»
WHY SETTLE WITH LESS?«»
«»
«c3»By Zerox/Gods«»
«c2»«»«as»
All mags have fillers.  Some more than others.  To help the few editors out
there finding the filler of this issue of the Eurochart, I'll just state it
right  away  that  your search is now over.  Some editors can't even notice
that most of their mag consists of fillers.  But then again, the opinion of
what's a filler may vary from scener to scener.«»
«»
Why  the  hell  do  I even write this stuff?  Don't I have any dignity left
when  it comes to writing?  First I recycle and now I even start writing an
article with the goal of making a filler.  Well, the obvious answer is that
I  haven't written any quality articles for several years...  Or to be more
precise,  since  2002.   What it all comes down to is naturally motivation,
inspiration  and  time.   Some people are more willing than others to spend
a lot  of time and dedication to come up with something utterly stunning and
innovative.   Making  something totally different doesn't exactly mean it's
brilliant.«»
«»
The reason why I'm writing at all for the EuroChart is that Darkhawk wanted
me  to.   As  I  failed  the  deadline  for  sending  contributions  to the
EuroChart,  we've  discussed the possibility of having a work session at his
place  in  Denmark instead.  As a reward for writing I would get 1 beer pr.
article.   Considering  the high  beer  prices in Norway, that sounded very
appealing  to  me.   Getting  paid for writing is nothing new to me as I've
received  payment  from  the  papermag AmigaPlus since January 2002.  Later
when  I  was  travelling  to  Denmark I came to think about the fact that I
actually  need 60 beers pr.  article to somewhat have a balanced budget and
making it worthwhile.«»
«»
When  I  arrived  at Darkhawk's place it was quite nice to find out that he
had  also  invited  Adonis  and  Dr. Doom.   Well, Dr. Doom only stayed there
during  the  evenings  though.  Anyway, little did I know that Darkhawk had
totally  other plans for this small meeting.  I thought that we were at his
place  to  make  a few articles and do the finishing touches for the mag.
But  no!   The progress was quite slow, and it was not very likely that the
Eurochart  would get released in the close future.  We had to face the fact
that  the only reason we were invited to Darkhawk's place was because he was
totally  broke.   The poor guy didn't have food on his table, and naturally
couldn't  buy us any beers.  Because of his dedication to the scene and the
amount  of  work  awaiting  him  handling several different sources for the
EuroChart,  he  stays  unemployed.  He can't find any time at all for a job
now. All his energy goes into the EC project. As Wade has written elsewhere
in  this  mag,  this  is not very healthy.  Especially staying without food
isn't too good for Darkhawk.«»
«»
Anyway,  me and Adonis gave him some money so Darkhawk could get a taste of
food  again.   Now  we  just  hope he will survive until the EuroChart gets
released.  If you actually read this, I guess he succeeded.  That is, Adonis
doesn't  really  want  the  EuroChart to succeed.  His project Kubika is of
more importance of course.  There's a fierce competition within IRIS at the
moment.   But  I  can't reveal too much about that at the present time.  If
you  need  some more evidence of this, just click into www.eurochart.dk and
check  out the messages posted between the 10th to the 13th of August 2005,
or read Kubika at www.kubika.dk.«»
«»
Ok, I better end this small article now.  This is how a filler really looks
like.   For some it even seems scene-related.  Naturally it's only crap and
shouldn't  be published in any mag at all.  Then again, I stopped doing any
quality control whatsoever in 2002.  Some have never tried having a quality
control at all though.«»
«»
«e»