disc6.font,8
«»
«ac»«»
«c3»LOBOTOMIA'2000 «c2»REPORT«»
«c2»---------------------«»
«»
«c4»by Kure/RNO«»
«»
«as»«»
«c5»
At the early Friday evening of October 20th «c2»Tundrah/RNO «c5»and I entered the
train at Helsinki, Lahti as our target. It took approximately two hours to
get there so we had good time to enjoy a beer and cider. When we arrived to
Lahti, we were still supposed to get into a bus if we wanted to arrive at
«c2»The Hooligan/DCS's «c5»place. After waiting some time we stepped in to the right
bus. As the city was unfamiliar to us we said to the bus driver that we need
to get off at this certain bus stop - he mumbled something that we thought
as 'okay dokay'. After 20 minutes and minor setbacks we found ourselves at
the cozy home of The Hooligan&Waimo/Spedes'.«»
«»
 Tundrah and I took one beverage each and put the rest of our beers and ciders
to the fridge and noticed that «c2»Weirdo/RNO «c5»and «c2»Splatterhead/ex.Scoopex had
«c5»already arrived and started boozing, so Tundrah and I started catching them
up which wasn't an unpleasant task to us. The time just flew as we boozed,
listened to music and played Playstation games - in general, just had a great
time. Later on we called a taxi and went to the "nightclub" called Diva which
was located in the heart of Lahti.«»
«»
 We had nice evening there by drinking and dancing. At some point at the small
hours we left and went to some nearby pizza/kebab restaurant to eat a little
bit. Then we most probably took a taxi back to The Hooligan's place and went
to sleep.«»
«»
 The Saturday morning came and not surprisingly some of us had a hangover -
especially Tundrah seemed to have an awful one. Again we were playing games
on PSX, I particularly got excited about Tony Hawk's skateboarding game
which made me to buy a second hand Playstation (haven't got it yet though).
A bit later we went to a local grocery store to buy more beer, cider and
some food and the same time took approximately 90 (!) empty bottles.
«c2»Shape/DCS «c5»was also supposed to come there but he had left the bus at a
wrong bus stop so The Hooligan went to pick him up.«»
«»
 «c2»SHD/Mystic «c5»came about an hour later and he was the only one of us who got
there without any problems :) The Hooligan started cooking some delicious
mixture of Italian and Mexican stew (?) food while the rest of us boozed and
played even more games on PSX. It was then time to go to the sauna. After we
came back we ate and started preparing ourselves to the «c1»Lobotomia party «c5»by
boozing some more. «»
«»
 Some hours later we started walking to the party place which was located
about a couple of kilometers from THG's place. Finally we found ourselves
behind the party building where the real sceners were grilling and boozing. We
freezed us as we spent a few hours outside until we went inside - of course
we didn't pay anything to get in. We went to the 2nd floor to watch the demo
compo (the only competition we saw) where «c2»Claustro/Creamass «c5»had his office. «»
«»
 The small office soon became crowded and there was about (over?) 10 people
drinking, fooling around and of course watching the demo competition. I have
no good memory of the «c2»compo «c5»except there was many «c2»demos «c5»- over 10, some were
poor joke productions, some nice numediadesigned demos. (They were all PC
demos by the way). After watching the competition we were about to start
walking to the local bar.«»
«»
 So we started walking and «c2»Marq/Fit «c5»joined our posse. As you can probably
guess, I don't have any accurate details how did the end of the night go,
but some of us played pool, and of course drank some more. Maybe we spent a
couple of hours there until we left back to THG's place. On the way there
THG said a few immortal phrases, such as "spagettiyksikkö".«»
«»
 The next day people started to leave homes different ways, so did I and
Weirdo as we sit in the bus aiming for Virrat.. You can go and watch some
pictures from this weekend at RNO's homepage «c2»(http://rno.lowfidelity.org),
«c5»enjoy! :)«»
«»
«»
«e»

