disc.font,10
«»
«»«ac»
«c4»------------«»
«c1»Multiletters«»
«c4»------------«»
«»«al»
«c3»BY PUNISHER/DARKAGE^NAH-KOLOR«»
«»«as»
«c2»Multiletters. «c5»Either you like them or you hate them. Most swappers in the
 year 2001 tends to hate multiletters, because they are not «c2»"friendly"
 «c5»enough. In this article, I will give you my view on multiletters, and I
 hope that some of you reading this, will write an article with your
 opinions, so that we can get some discussions in different mags about this
 subject.«»
«»
 For all of you that doesn't have any clue about what multiletters actually
 is, then I will give you a short explanation. When a swapper sends out a
 multiletter, to for example 50 people, all of them will receive «c2»the exactly
 same letter. «c5»In some cases, the swapper will only write a standard part
 which everybody receives, which means no personal notes. In other cases,
 personal notes are included to some or to all persons receiving the
 letter. The latter is most appreciated. I hope that the word multiletter
 now stands clear to you that is not involved in swapping.«»
«»
 But «c2»why do people write multiletters? «c5»Is it because they don't bother to
 write long and personal letters to their friends or is it because they
 have a short amount of sparetime and don't want to delay? Two answers
 which have been the reality in many situations. My impression is that when
 a swapper writes a multiletter, he writes it «c2»because he is forced, «c5»not
 because he wants to. Writing multiletters takes much less time than writing
 ordinary letters, and when you owe 70 sendings to various people, this
 could be the best way of «c2»getting out of trouble. «c5»You avoid delays, and
 that is very, very important. However, there might be some people, I would
 not like to mention any names here, that writes multiletters because they
 don't bother writing long and personal ones. They do it because «c2»it is fast
 and efficent «c5»and it doesn't require much work.«»
«»
 What «c2»swappers «c5»prefer is another question. Those people I swap with seem to
 prefer «c2»ordinary letters, «c5»as they are much more «c2»personal and friendly. I
 «c5»can agree with them about that. A few however, say that they enjoy
 multiletters because they can read what a swapper have written to his
 other contacts. «c2»Curiosity «c5»is the main keyword here I think, and also the
 fact that you could get lot's of letters for free! I will now put in some
 quotes from contacts, after I wrote them a multiletter. Check it out;«»
«»
«c6» Lahve/Mad Wizards+Reason:«»
«»
 «c5»- I`ve got your multiletter and I don`t like this way of fast answers,
   of course  I  respect  your  time problems, but I prefer a little
   delay in this case  than a fast answer with a few words which could be
   probably problematic answering in my side.«»
«»
«»
«c6» Jackobe/Oxygen 64:«»
«»
«c5» - Multiletters aren't as bad as you think, if your letter exhasuts all
   the topics of your toughts, then it's all right.«»
«»
 Here we have to different ideas and points of view regarding this type of
 letter. First we see Lahve who don't like it at all, while Jackobe is more
 of the positive kind. The rest of replies to the multiletter fits under
 either Lahve's answer or Jackobe's answer. The overweight was about 70% in
 Lahve's favour.«»
«»
 So what is my opinion on the subject? «c2»I think multiletters are ok, «c5»but
 only if you really need to write them. In other terms, if other options
 are not possible doing. What I like is a friendly letter filled with joy
 and laughter, often so good to read, that I get tears in my eyes. On the
 swapping scene today, «c2»friendship is the keyword, «c5»and then, one must do
 whatever one can do to treat your friends well!«»
«»
«»
«e»

