Commodore: The Marketing Plan Briefing,
by The Philadelphia Amiga Users' Group 
Original source: The Blitter, Journal of the Philadelphia Amiga
Users' Group. 1/92


At the November, 1991 Commodore Shareholders' Meeting in the 
Bahamas, Mr. Irving Gould stated that he receives countless letters 
from Commodore users saying that Commodore should sell more Amigas 
in the United States. He agreed, but stated that "he wished that 
someone would tell him how to do it." I present here, a plan.

Also at the meeting, these same Commodore users who wrote Mr. 
Gould letters were described as fanatics. Terrorists are described 
as fanatics. Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary defines fanatics 
as "marked by excessive enthusiasm and often intense uncritical 
devotion."

So, let me ask you: Who was the last Commodore user you spoke 
to who was uncritical? That leaves enthusiastic and devoted. These 
types of customers are one of the greatest asset a company could 
possibly have. Through their own incidental evangelism, these 
customers are already responsible for most new Amiga sales in the 
United States. I see it happen all the time. That's how I was sold 
on the Amiga. And that's how I sell people on it. 

Organized and directed, we users could generate massive new 
sales. Why be content with a mere 1 billion dollars in annual 
business (-- 1991 Shareholders' Report) when you literally have an 
army of millions out there waiting and wanting to do your selling 
for you? If only provided with the leadership.

To successfully organize and direct the users without that 
ever-so-familiar taint of bitterness towards Commodore being 
present, the users must believe that they are partners with a new 
and reformed Commodore. They must see that Commodore itself wants 
to be successful, sharing the same vision and understanding of 
their own products as the users themselves do. And that Commodore 
is listening and working with them.

What is that going to take? Can it be done from outside 
Commodore? From the inside? Does it have to happen from the top? 
Does it have to cost a lot of money or consume anyone's time? Or, 
is it in fact, only a matter of fine-tuning and leveraging the 
activities which go on anyway? 

So, what type of things will go into a marketing plan of this 
sort? The four basic parts are: a mission, objectives, strategy, 
and tactics. I will omit the tactics. There is no chance for me to 
be aware of all the tactical opportunities that exist. I will be 
relying on you for that.

This is a low-cost, long-term marketing plan. It can, in fact, 
run simultaneously with, and increase the effectiveness of any 
other marketing program. It gives an opportunity for everyone to 
participate. Although, to be most effective it will require 
someone's full attention. 

The potential results of an evangelizing plan of this sort are 
enormous. By its very nature, it may become self-supporting and 
momentum building--and become a cause. 

Similarly to how MS-DOS is currently the platform of choice 
through social pressure, and the Mac achieved success through the 
"power to be your best" sales pitch, Commodore could once again 
rule the home computer market as the computer for the next 
generation.

Now, I ask you to analyze this plan and think how you might 
contribute to it. What parts of this plan can show results 
(increased sales) within 3 months? Exactly what letters need to be 
written, and to whom? Who are the critical allies? Who could become 
the champions of this cause? What opportunities have I missed?

The plan makes the assumption that there are people out there 
ready to join the cause. Am I correct? What are their reasons? What 
are our reasons? How do the developers and dealers fit in?

In a cause, people must work together. Combined efforts have 
more effect than when working alone. The "not invented here" 
syndrome must not occur. No matter where an asset originates, it 
must be used. Before 3rd party developers battle each other, the 
total installed base of Amigas (and therefore their own market) 
must be increased. 

The common goal is clear. We have to pull-no-punches, and 
pull-all-the-strings in order to achieve the objectives stated in 
the marketing plan. By design, the plan is fueled by synergy, 
friendship, and common goals; not money (at least relatively little 
money). 

I am making a high-impact video proposal of this marketing 
plan. It's function is to make the plan feel very real and viable. 
It will excite and motivate those who watch so that in effect, the 
plan actually becomes activate. Write me with any suggestions.

Now, remember: this is NOT an official Commodore marketing 
plan. But with enough support, it might become one. That is part of 
its beauty. If the premise is correct, I will be receiving letters 
confirming it's viability. Write:

attn: Mike Levin
Philadelphia Amiga Users' Group
PO Box 21186
Philadelphia, PA 19154-0386

Suggested reading: 
Selling the Dream, Guy Kawasaki, Harper Collins Publishers.
The Art of War, Sun Tzu  (translated by Thomas Cleary), Shambala 
Publications.

