===============================================
Final ODYSSEY - Solution Level 1
===============================================

1- Go under the arch and step twice on the pressure pad to close 
the pit.
2- Walk right and take the transporter.  Step on the pressure pad 
and return.
3- Now you can go down where the scroll is and take the 
transporter that is located there.
4- Move up to step on the pressure pad beside the mirrors and 
return.
5- You can now walk to the far left of the arena. Step on the 
pressure pad and walk through the automatic doors.
6- Take the transporter at the top left of the arena to collect the 
money.
7- Go to the next arena by taking the exit at the bottom.

1- Press the switch on the right to activate the maze 
transformation.
2- Now that the wall is gone, go around the bottom and up to the 
transporter. Hide in the small alcove to avoid the rolling booulder. 
Take the transporter.
3- There are 9 transporters.  Only take the one on the top right.
4- Walk up through the electric arcs and collect the key.
5- Return to the transporter.
6- Take the transporter at the bottom to return to where the 
boulder is.
7- Use the switch just near there.
8- Returns as you did before.
9- The guard has now moved and you can open the door with the 
key. There is also an underground bonus room to the right if you 
can find it.
10- Take the left exit to the next arena.

1- There are a number of hand prints on the wall.  Press the 
second one from the left and the wall will slide into the ground.
2- Go right and collect the bomb in the chest.
3- Step on the one-way path and collect the key in the middle.
4- Get off the path by heading to the outside and getting off down 
the bottom.
5- Go to the top and destroy the breather.
6- Go back and take the exit at the top of the arena.

1- Walk right and collect the other bomb in the chest. Walk up to 
step on the pressure pad.
2- There is a different pressure pad near the force field. Step on it 
to temporarily disengage the force field, allowing you to walk 
through it.
3- Go back and take the left path up to the exit.

1- Walk to the bottom and destroy the homing domes and the 
orcs. Remember to pick up money whenever you see some. Go 
through the automatic doors.
2- Slowly move down until you see a boulder come out of the hole 
at the top. Quickly move back to where you were to allow the 
boulder to roll past without hitting you.  It will then fall into the hole 
below and fill it up allowing you to walk over it.
3- Select the Nuke as your current weapon and place one just 
below the cracked wall.
4- The wall is now destroyed.  Destroy the other cracked wall and 
take the exit.

1- Take the left transporter and collect the plasma rifle. Return.
2- Walk to the top right of the arena. There are columns of stone 
there. Push the one on the far right and it will move. Collect the 
money and take the exit.

1- Don't hesitate here. You will automatically get transported to a 
room with 3 homing domes firing at you.  Immediately go left and 
drink the invincibility potion. Destroy the domes, collect the food 
and 3 keys that are now there.
2- Now open the 3 doors and collect the Fireblade from the chest 
and get ready to use it.
3- Make your way through the maze destroying all the creatures 
and take the right exit.

1- This arena can get confusing.  The room is full of switches and 
each switch swaps between 2 different mazes.  Your aim is to get 
to the exit on the right. There area couple of ways to get there.
2- Press the first switch at the top.
3- Go right and press the switch near the flame torch.
4- Press the switch just below that one.
5- Walk up and press the switch there.  Collect the goodies and 
press the switch
again.
6- Go down and press the bottom switch.
7- Walk down and press the next switch down.
8- Go right and press the switch there.
9- You can now go out the exit.

1- Go into the center of the arena and take the transporter.
2- Collect the Chain Gun and return. You will need to use this on 
Kilmando wholooks like the other orcs, but is much stronger and 
smarter.
3- Destroy all the orcs. The exit will not open until Kilmando is 
dead. Fight him among the stone columns and try and get some 
distance between you beforeletting loose with the Chain Gun. 
Once he has been killed, collect the gold at the top and take the 
right exit.

1- There are a series of pressure pads here. Walk down over the 2 
left pressure pads. Once you're on top of the second pressure 
pad, walk right and step on the pad there. Step on the pressure 
pad above that and the one on the right.
2- Walk down through the passage and all the pits should now be 
closed.
3- There is a hand print on the wall, but it won't open until you've 
destroyed the 4 mirrors.
4- Open the door and destroy the homing domes.
5- Talk to Karlos, then take the right exit.

1- Kill all the monsters and talk to Gorland. Don't worry about the 
combination switches yet. Take the left transporter and go through 
the top exit.

1- Use a bomb to destroy the wall on the left. Now that there's a 
gap in the wall, you need to push a stone column through there. 
The only column you can move is the one without a shadow. Push 
the column 1 down, 4 right, 4 down and then left to the now open 
wall.
2- Push the column into the hole in the ground so you can walk 
across and take the left exit.

1- There is a row of stone columns in this arena. You need to push 
one onto the transporter to move it. To do this, push the 5th 
column 2 up, 3 left, 1 down, 3 right, then down to push it onto the 
transporter.
2- Go through the automatic doors and destroy the crumbled wall.
3- Walk carefully past the arrows and take the transporter.
4- Push the stone column that should now be there up to the 
pressure pad to deactivate the force field.
5- Now you can go through the force field gate to the exit at the 
top.

1- This next section is a series of random mazes. You have to find 
3 special keys. The maze will go on forever until the keys are 
found.
2- A key can be found on every 3rd maze, so keep walking up 
taking the top exit until you get to the 3rd maze where you will find 
the first key.
3- Repeat this process for all 3 keys and you will get out to the 
next arena.

1- Destroy the 2 breathers, get the key and blow the wall.
2- Push the first stone column you come across onto the 
transporter at the top.
3- The other columns need to be pushed onto the round buttons 
on the floor.
4- Once all the buttons have been covered you will be able to 
open the door. Walk right and push the stone column that was 
transported up into the hole.
5- You can now walk up to open the door and take the right exit.

1- Move through the maze killing all the monsters.
2- Use the switch to activate the stairs and go underground.
3- Collect the money, destroy the breather and return to the 
surface.
4- Take the bottom exit.

1- Go right, destroy the orcs and go down.
2- Open the automatic doors and wait there for the rolling boulder 
to come.
3- Don't get out of the way until the last moment in order to let the 
boulder through the door.  It will then keep rolling until it reaches 
the pit.
4- The boulder fills the pit allowing you to walk over it to the bottom 
exit.

1- You're now back to the arena with Gorland the magician in it.
2- Take the right exit into the next arena.

1- Go right along the bottom and collect all the pickups.
2- Go back up through the arch and collect the bomb on the top 
left of the arena.
3- The only way to open the force field gate is to get the orc who is 
in the enclosed room, to step on the pressure pad for you.
4- Move up to the hole on the right and the orc will follow you and 
step on the pressure pad.
5- Quickly go around and through the now open gate.
6- Open the door with a key and take the exit.

1- Push the first stone column you come across up.
2- Move the 2nd column down and to the left and push it into the 
pit.
3- Walk over to the right of the arena and push the top column 
down and left onto the pressure pad which will open the force field 
gate.
4- Push the same column down into the pit in front of it.
5- Walk up through the now open gate and destroy the breather.
6- Go down and left to where the 2 stone columns together are. 
Push the left column down one. Go back around and push the 
same column 1 left, 1 up, 3 left, and up into the pit.
7- Push the other 2 columns up into the other pits.
8- Go left to the last stone column. Push it 1 down, 2 left, 3 down, 
4 right, 2 up, right and then go around and push it into the last pit. 
Take the exit.

1- Get through the random hedge maze by destroying all the 
guards and taking the exit.

1- Make your way to the switch and activate it.  The arena will now 
turn dark. 
2- Collect all the money, destroy the orcs and press the switch 
again.
3- Take the top left exit and make your way back to the arena 
where Gorland is located.

1- Go to the combination switches and make them as follows: 
down, up, down, down, up, up. Collect the money. You should now 
have a full money bag.
2- Give the money to Gorland, who will give you an orb in 
exchange.
3- If there is any money left at the top, return and collect it now 
that your money bag is empty again.
4- Take the bottom exit.

1- Make your way through the maze destroying the 2 breathers.
2- Free the girl by inserting the orb into the hole next to the cage.
3- The girl should now be following you.  Take the exit on the right.

1- Take the transporter.
2- There are 3 switches here. Press the first 2 switches and a key 
appears. Get it.
3- Take the transporter back. You can now open the door with the 
key.
4- Find the mirror and break it.  Go back and open the wall with 
the hand print.
5- Take the transporter to the exit.

1- Destroy the breather, collect all the chest items and make your 
way to the exit below.

1- This is the arena with the tunnel that lets the girls escape. Take 
the girl into the tunnel and walk down it until the girl disappears.
2- An exit is now open at the left of the arena.

1- You have arrived at the heroes graveyard. Collect the money 
and leave via the left exit.

1- Destroy the homing domes.
2- Push the stone column below the flame torch up against the 
flame torch.
3- You can now move right. There are 3 stone columns here. 
There is a switch behind the middle one.
4- Push the columns on either side up, so you can move the 
middle one to the side to reveal the switch. Push the switch.
5- Once the maze has transformed, go to the spinning sword. This 
is the real Sword of Zendren. Collect it.
6- Press the switch on the left hand side, then leave by the left 
exit.

1- Destroy all guards in the random maze and go to the exit.

1- Kill all the monsters, collect all the money, step on the pressure 
pad at the bottom, and leave via the right exit.

1- This maze has invisible walls. The idea is to negotiate the maze 
and try to get to the 2 pressure pads to close the pits.
2- Once the pits are closed, take the right exit.

1- Use one bomb to destroy the damaged wall.
2- Destroy the dome with the spinning balls and it will leave a key 
behind. Hint- to avoid the bouncing balls, leave the arena and 
come straight back and the balls will be gone!
3- Open the door and collect the 3 bombs there.
4- Destroy the other walls and leave by the bottom exit.

1- Go right and up to the next arena.
2- Collect all the money at the top. Press the switch to reveal more 
money.
3- Return to the invisible wall arena.
4- Take the top exit this time.

1- Destroy the breather and the 3 damaged walls.
2- Activate the stairs and go underground.
3- Talk to Jobe the blacksmith who will give you a pair of tongs.
4- Return to the surface and take the top exit.

1- Give Karlos the Sword of Zendren. He will now be free.
2- Go back to the invisible wall arena and take the left exit.
3- You are now clear to take the top exit in the next arena.

1- Collect the key and all the money. Open the door at the top left.
2- Take the transporter to collect the bonus.
3- Return and leave by the left exit.

1- Destroy the 4 breathers and take the left exit.

1- Destroy the breather, collect the key after destroying the 
spinning balls.
2- Go back to take the right exit.

1- You can now open the door with the key and go underground.
2- Destroy the breather there. Go back to the surface and remove 
the fireball. The field should then go down.
3- You should now have a full money bag. Go on a journey back to 
Gorland the magician, like you did to get to Karlos.
4- Give Gorland the money to get the last orb.

1- Go to where the 2nd girl is located, (1 arena left and 1 arena 
down).
2- Free the girl and take the right exit.
3- Get the girl out as before by taking her to the tunnel.
4- Return to the arena with the field and the fireball that are no 
longer there.
5- Leave via the bottom exit.

1- Push the stone column on the far right of the arena down 4 
places.
2- Push the column that is now left of you across left 2 places and 
collect the key that is there.
3- Walk up through the door and down through the automatic 
doors.
4- Kill the Key Master and take the left exit.

1- Kill all the monsters. Make your way down the bottom left and 
walk through the sliding doors. Walk back again to re-open the 
doors to let the rolling boulder through so it can fall into the pit.
2- Take the exit below.

1- Press the switch that is on the left hand side of the tablet.
2- Destroy all the homing domes. Each will leave behind a key. 
Collect the keys.
3- Open all the doors and press the switch that is there.
4- You can now take the right exit.

1- Make your way to the bottom of the arena.
2- The level exit should be open at the bottom.
3- Go through the exit. You've finished level 1. Phew!!!
