        S P O N T A N T R O . E X E

                    BY
           Gunnars Farvebio (tm)


Released 3. june 1998.


Featuring:

-8bpl 320x200 vector

-Ham8 voxel with big logo

-Ham8 vector with Z-clip (Not z-buffer!),
                Shadows (Real calculations! Not 3D-Demo-baseline projections),
                Mirror  (Also the real thing and not the Scoopex-Feedback!!),
                Big blurred logo.

The big moving logo and the scroll is our contribution to the oldschoolmania.

In that occasion a message to all oldscholl-attenders:
Please make your routines up to date!!! There's nothing as awful as when a
programmer still does linevectors or dots without optimizing them to use the
68030!! We appreciate old ideas and find it great to use linevector and dots,
but why don't you use the many megahertz???
You can also do new routines but in an old designed way. We did that here by
making our usual design with up-to-date routines.
When GFB(tm) began in 1991, we were tired of the usual Flash-and-Anarchy style
and wanted to do something else. We found big logos and scroll silly and made
fun of it. But now we miss this style!!! The new style with naked screens only
showing an effect rarely changing examples to show flexibility, we think demos
are getting even more silly as in 1991. So now we make fun of the new style and
tribute the old style. But please don't put us in the same cathegory as the
many new Oldskoolers (Spell it without "k"!!) since we appreciate innovation
and optimizing.
                                                Boris Bahnhof, 1998


Daddy Kool: "Tal for dig selv"
MZ1453: "Nej, der ER faktisk rigtigt hvad han siger"
Daddy Kool: "Aj, men han skal altid være lyseslukker"
MZ1453: "Ja, men jeg ville skrive det samme!"
Daddy Kool: "Nej! For så god til engelsk er du ikke!"

Og så kom der endnu et skænderi!!
Selv i en DOC-fil kan det gå galt!!!


Hurtig kredit:

68030 (060?)    MZ1453
LOGO            J.Hash
Ufonaut         Tentacle+Psycho/Instinct
Font            Fish/Ex.F.D.
Tyskerplop      Daddy Kool
(D.Kool: "Hey, du behøver da ikke blive så sur over det..!")
(B.Bahnhof: "Det er da DIG der er en lyseslukker!!!")
(D.Kool: "Nej")
(B.Bahnhof: "JO!")
-o-
NU STOPPER VI!!
