!big!
100 Ways to Confuse Your Roommate




  1. Insist that you are a vegetarian and protest anytime your roommate
     eats meat. Then leave "Slim Jim" wrappers on the floor and lie on the
     bed holding your stomach everytime your roommate walks in. If he/she
     asks about the wrappers, say you know nothing about them.

  2.

 Get some hair. Disperse it around your roommate's head while he/she is
     asleep. Keep a pair of scissors by your bed. Snicker at your roommate
     every morning.

  3. Every time your roommate walks in yell, "Hooray! You're back!" as loud
     as you can and dance around the room for five minutes. Afterwards,
     keep looking at your watch and saying, "Shouldn't you be going
     somewhere?"

  4. Trash the room when your roommate's not around. Then leave and wait
     for your roommate to come back. When he/she does, walk in and act
     surprised. Say, "Uh-oh, it looks like THEY were here again."

  5. Every time you see your roommate yell, "You jerk" and kick him/her in
     the stomach. Then buy him/her some ice cream.

  6. Set your roommate's bed on fire. Apologize and explain that you've
     been watching too much "Beavis & Butthead." Do it again. Tell him/her
     that you're not sorry because this time, they deserved it.

  7. Put your glasses on before you go to bed. Take them off as soon as you
     wake up. If your roommate asks, explain that they are Magic Dream
     Glasses. Complain that you've been having terrible nightmares.

  8. Eat lots of "Lucky Charms." Pick out all the yellow moons and
     stockpile them in the closet. If your roommate inquires, explain that
     visitors are coming, but you can't say anything more, or you'll have
     to face the consequences.

  9. Set up meetings with your roommate's faculty advisor. Inquire about
     his/her academic potential. Take lots of notes, and then give your
     roommate a full report. Insist that he/she do the same.

 10. "Drink" a raw egg for breakfast every morning. Explain that you are in
     training. Eat a dozen donuts every night.

 11. Every Thursday, pack up everything you own and tell your roommate
     you're going home. Come back in an hour and explain that no one was
     home. Unpack everything and go to sleep.

 12. Every time you wake up, start yelling, "Help! Where am I?!" and run
     around the room for a few minutes. Then go back to bed. If your
     roommate asks, say you don't know what he/she is talking about.

 13. Draw a tiny black spot on your arm. Make it bigger every day. Look at
     it and say, "It's spreading, it's spreading."

 14. Buy a McDonald's "Happy Meal" for lunch every day. Eat the straw and
     the napkin. Throw everything else away.

 15. Buy a plant. Sleep with it at night. Talk to it. After a few weeks,
     start to argue with it loudly. Then yell, "I can't live in the same
     room with you," storm out of the room and slam the door. Get rid of
     the plant, but keep the pot. Refuse to discuss the plant ever again.

 16. Buy a Jack-In-The-Box. Every day, turn the handle until the clown pops
     out. Scream continuously for twenty minutes.

 17. Hang up pictures of chickens all over the room. If your roommate eats
     eggs, yell at him/her and call him/her a cannibal.

 18. Buy some knives. Sharpen them every night. While you're doing so, look
     at your roommate and mutter, "Soon, soon...."

 19. Lock the door while your roommate is out. When he/she comes back and
     tries to unlock it, yell, "Don't come in, I'm naked!" Keep this up for
     several hours. When you finally let your roommate in, immediately take
     off all of your clothes, and ignore your roommate.

 20. Bring in potential "new" roommates from around campus. Give them tours
     of the room and the building. Have them ask about your roommate in
     front of him/her, and reply, "Oh, him/her? He/she won't be here much
     longer."

 21. If your roommate comes home after midnight, hit him/her on the head
     with a rolling pin. Immediately go to bed, muttering, "Ungrateful
     little..."

 22. Pile dirty dishes in your roommate's bed. Insist that you don't know
     how they got there.

 23. Collect hundreds of pens and pile them on one side of the room. Keep
     one pencil on the other side of the room. Laugh at the pencil.

 24. Feign a serious illness for two weeks. Have a priest come to your room
     and visit you. Write out a will, leaving everything to your roommate.
     One day, miraculously "recover." Insist that your roommate write out a
     will, leaving everything to you. Every time he/she coughs, excitedly
     say, "Oooh, are you dying?"

 25. Live in the hallway for a month. Afterwards, bring all of your stuff
     back into the room and tell your roommate, "Okay, your turn."

 26. Keep a tarantula in a jar for three days. Then get rid of the
     tarantula. If your roommate asks, say, "Oh, he's around here
     somewhere."

 27. Tell your roommate, "I've got an important message for you." Then
     pretend to faint. When you recover, say you can't remember what the
     message was. Later on, say, "Oh, yeah, I remember!" Pretend to faint
     again. Keep this up for several weeks.

 28. Bowl inside the room. Set up tournaments with other people in the
     building. Award someone a trophy. If your roommate wants to bowl too,
     explain that he/she needs bowling shoes.

 29. Walk backwards all the time. Then pretend to trip and hurt yourself.
     Fake an injury and go through a long, painful recovery. Start walking
     backwards again.

 30. While your roommate is out, glue your shoes to the ceiling. When your
     roommate walks in, sit on the floor, hold your head, and moan.

 31. Explain to your roommate that you're going to be housing a prospective
     student in the near future. One day, bring in a pig. If your roommate
     protests, hug the pig and tell your roommate that he/she hurt its
     feelings. Watch T.V. with the pig, eating lots of bacon.

 32. Make a sandwich. Don't eat it, leave it on the floor. Ignore the
     sandwich. Wait until your roommate gets rid of it, and then say, "Hey,
     where is my sandwich!?" Complain loudly that you are hungry.

 33. Punch a hole in the T.V. Sit and watch it anyway, complaining about
     the poor picture quality.

 34. Wear a cape. Stand in front of an open window for about an hour every
     day. Then, one day, when your roommate is gone, go outside and lie
     down underneath the window, pretending to be hurt, and wait for your
     roommate to return. The next day, start standing in front of the
     window again.

 35. Collect potatoes. Paint faces on them and give them names. Name one
     after your roommate. Separate your roommate's potato from the others.
     Wait a few days, and then bake your roommate's potato and eat it.
     Explain to your roommate, "He just didn't belong."

 36. Fill an empty shaving cream can with whipped cream. Use it to shave,
     and then spray some into your mouth. Later on, complain that you feel
     sick. Continue this process for several weeks.

 37. Cover your bed with a tent. Live inside it for a week. If your
     roommate asks, explain that "It's a jungle out there." Get your
     roommate to bring you food and water.

 38. Keep a vacuum cleaner in the middle of the room. Look at it with fear
     for a few days. Then stay out of the room entirely, opening the door
     only a crack and whispering to your roommate, "Psst! Is it gone?"

 39. Break the window with a rock. If your roommate protests, explain that
     you were hot. Open and close the broken window as you normally would.

 40. Throw darts at a bare wall. All of a sudden, act excited, telling your
     roommate that you hit the bull's eye.

 41. Send flowers to your roommate with a card that says, "I'm sorry. It
     won't happen again." When you see them, start ripping up the flowers.
     Repeat the process for a few weeks.

 42. Call your roommate "Clyde" by accident. Start doing so every so often.
     Increase the frequency over the next few weeks, until you are calling
     him "Clyde" all the time. If your roommate protests, say, "I'm sorry.
     I won't do that anymore, Murray."

 43. Hire a night watchman to guard the room while you are sleeping.

 44. Move everything to one side of the room. Ask your roommate if he knows
     how much an elephant weighs, and look at the floor on the empty side
     of the room with concern.

 45. Practice needlepoint every night. At one point, grab your thumb and
     scream, "Owwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww!" Cry hysterically for a few minutes,
     and then go to bed. Sob and sniff all night.

 46. When your roommate comes in, pretend that you are on the phone,
     screaming angrily and shouting obscenities. After you hang up, say,
     "That was your mom. She said she'd call back."

 47. Every time your roommate comes in, immediately turn off the lights and
     go to bed. When he/she leaves, get up and loudly yell, "Okay, guys,
     you can come out now."

 48. Start wearing a crown all the time. If your roommate tells you to take
     it off, say, "Who do you think you are? A king?"

 49. Sit in front of a chess board for hours, saying nothing, doing
     nothing. Then, look up and say, "I think this game goes a lot faster
     with two players."

 50. Talk back to your "Rice Krispies." All of a sudden, act offended,
     throw the bowl on the floor and kick it. Refuse to clean it up,
     explaining, "No, I want to watch them suffer."

 51. Change the locks on the door. Don't let your roommate in unless he/she
     says the secret word. Change the secret word often. If your roommate
     can't guess the secret word, make him/her pay a tithe.

 52. Scatter stuffed animals around the room. Put party hats on them. Play
     loud music. When your roommate walks in, turn off the music, take off
     the party hats, put away the stuffed animals, and say, "Well, it was
     fun while it lasted."

 53. Hang a tire swing from the ceiling. Act like a monkey. If someone
     besides your roommate comes in, cease acting like a monkey and claim
     that the tire swing was your roommate's idea. When you and your
     roommate are alone again, continue acting like a monkey.

 54. Unplug everything in the room except for one toaster. Pray to the
     toaster. Bring it gifts. Throw some of your roommate's possessions out
     the window. Say that the toaster made you do it.

 55. Challenge your roommate to a duel. If he refuses, claim that you have
     won by forfeit and therefore conquered his side of the room. Insist
     that he remove all of his possessions immediately.

 56. Sign your roommate up for various activities. (Campus tour guide,
     blood donor, organ donor).

 57. Start dressing like an Indian. If your roommate inquires, claim that
     you are getting in touch with your Native-American roots. If your
     roommate accuses you of not having any Native-American roots, claim
     that he/she has offended your people and put a curse on your roommate.

 58. Wear your shoes on the wrong feet all the time. Constantly complain
     that your feet hurt.

 59. Hit your roommate on the head with a brick. Claim that you were trying
     to kill a mosquito.

 60. Steal something valuable of your roommate's. If he/she asks about it,
     tell him/her that you traded it for some magic beans. Give some beans
     to your roommate.

 61. Instead of turning off the light switch, smash the light bulb with a
     hammer. Put a new bulb in the next day. Complain often about the cost
     of light bulbs.

 62. Videotape yourself hammering a nail into a wall for a while, and then
     stopping. Play the tape in your room. Right before the hammering stops
     on the videotape, look at the screen and say, "Don't do that."

 63. Buy a lamp. Tell your roommate it's a magic lamp, with a genie inside
     it. Spend a week thinking about what to wish for. At the end of the
     week, report that someone has released the genie from the lamp. Blame
     your roommate.

 64. Whenever your roommate brushes his/her teeth, watch him/her do so.
     Take notes. Write a paper on it, and circulate it around campus. If
     your roommate protests, say, "The people have a right to know!"

 65. Collect potato chips that you think look like famous people. Find one
     that looks like your roommate. Burn it, and explain, "It had to be
     done."

 66. Read the phone book out loud excitedly. ("Frank Johnson! Oh, wow!
     837-9494! Holy cow!")

 67. Shadow box several times a day. One day, walk in looking depressed. If
     your roommate asks what's wrong, explain that your shadow can't box
     with you anymore due to an injury. Ask your roommate if you can box
     with his/her shadow.

 68. When you walk into the room, look at your roommate in disgust and
     yell, "Oh, you're here!" Walk away yelling and cursing.

 69. Put up flyers around the building, reporting that your roommate is
     missing. Offer a reward for his/her safe return.

 70. Buy a watermelon. Draw a face on it and give it a name. Ask your
     roommate if the watermelon can sleep in his/her bed. If your roommate
     says no, drop the watermelon out the window. Make it look like a
     suicide. Say nasty things about your roommate at the funeral.

 71. Draw a chalk outline on the floor. When your roommate comes in, say,
     "Don't worry. It's not what you think." If he/she asks about it again,
     immediately change the subject.

 72. Drink a cup of coffee every morning. When you finish it, gnaw on the
     mug for about ten minutes. Then, look at your roommate, immediately
     put the mug away, and quickly leave the room.

 73. Paint a tunnel on the wall like they do in cartoons. Every day, hit
     your head as you attempt to crawl through it. Hold your head and
     grumble, "I'll get that pesky road runner...."

 74. Leave memos on your roommate's bed that say things like, "I know what
     you did," and "Don't think you can fool me." Sign them in blood.

 75. Hold a raffle, offering your roommate as first prize. If he/she
     protests, tell him/her that it's all for charity.

 76. Make cue cards for your roommate. Get them out whenever you'd like to
     have a conversation.

 77. Talk like a pirate all the time. Threaten to make your roommate walk
     the plank if he/she doesn't swab the deck. Arrrrrrrrrrrgh!

 78. Set up about twenty plants in an organized formation. When your
     roommate walks in, pretend to be in the middle of delivering a speech
     to the plants. Whisper to them, "We'll continue this later," while
     eyeing your roommate suspiciously.

 79. Buy a telescope. Sit on your bed and look across the room at your
     roommate through the telescope. When you're not using the telescope,
     act like your roommate is too far away for you to see.

 80. Keep some worms in a shoebox. When doing homework, go and consult with
     the worms every so often. Then become angry, shouting at the worms
     that they're stupid and they don't know what they're talking about.

 81. Watch "Psycho" every day for a month. Then act excited every time your
     roommate goes to take a shower.

 82. Wear a paper hat. Every time your roommate walks in, say, "Welcome to
     McDonalds, can I take your... Oh, it's just you." Take off the hat,
     sit, and pout.

 83. Go through your roommate's textbooks with a red pen, changing things
     and making random corrections. If your roommate protests, tell him/her
     that you just couldn't take it anymore.

 84. Leave the room at random, knock on the door, and wait for your
     roommate to let you back in. If he/she asks about it, go on a tangent
     about the importance of good manners.

 85. Hang a horseshoe above the door. Make up stories about having had good
     luck. Then, take the horseshoe down and wrap your head in bandages.
     When you see your roommate, look above the door where the horseshoe
     used to be, hold your head, and mutter, "Stupid horseshoe...."

 86. Carve a jack-o-lantern. Complain to your roommate that the
     jack-o-lantern has been staring at you. The next day, tell your
     roommate that the jack-o-lantern thinks he/she has been staring at it.
     Confide in your roommate that you really don't like the
     jack-o-lantern, but you can't convince it to move out.

 87. As soon as your roommate turns the light off at night, begin singing
     famous operas as loud as you can. When your roommate turns on the
     light, look around and pretend to be confused.

 88. Hang a basketball net on the wall. Challenge your refrigerator to
     basketball games, and play them in front of your roommate. Do so for
     about a month. Confide in your roommate that you think the
     refrigerator has been taking steroids.

 89. Drink lots of lemonade. Talk obnoxiously for hours about how much you
     love lemonade. Then, one day, paint your face yellow. From then on,
     complain about how much you hate lemonade.

 90. Late at night, start conversations that begin with, "Remember the good
     old days, when we used to..." and make up stories involving you and
     your roommate.

 91. Whenever your roommate sneezes, go and hide in the closet for about
     and hour. Look around nervously for the rest of the day.

 92. Sit and stare at your roommate for hours. Bring others in to join you.
     Eat peanuts, throwing a few at your roommate. Then say, "Boy, these
     zoos just aren't what they used to be."

 93. Tell your roommate that your toe hurts, and that means there's going
     to be an earthquake soon. While your roommate is out, trash everything
     on his/her side of the room. When he/she returns, explain that the
     earthquake hit, but only on one side of the room.

 94. Buy a gun. Clean it every day. One day, put a band-aid on your
     forehead, and refuse to discuss the gun ever again.

 95. Buy a lobster. Pretend to play cards with it. Complain to your
     roommate that the lobster is making up his own rules.

 96. Make pancakes every morning, but don't eat them. Draw faces on them,
     and toss them in the closet. Watch them for several hours each day.
     Complain to your roommate that your "pancake farm" isn't evolving into
     a self-sufficient community. Confide in your roommate that you think
     the king of the pancakes has been taking bribes.

 97. While you are ironing, pretend to burn yourself. Start a garbage can
     fire in the middle of the room. Toss the iron inside. If your roommate
     objects, explain that you are just trying to get even.

 98. Buy some turtles. Paint numbers on their backs. Race them down the
     hall.

 99. Create an army of animal crackers. Put them through basic training.
     Set up little checkpoints around the room. Tell your roommate that the
     camel spotted him/her in a restricted area and said not to do it
     again. Ask your roommate to apologize to the camel.

100. Put out a plate of cookies at night. Tell your roommate that they're
     for the Sandman. Take a bite out of one of the cookies while your
     roommate is asleep. The next morning, accuse your roommate of having
     bitten one of the cookies. If he/she tries to tell you the Sandman did
     it, insist that you know what the Sandman's teeth marks look like and
     that those are, in fact, not the Sandman's teeth marks. Grumble
     angrily and storm out of the room.



 J.O.T.W.
          Random
                    Search
                           Clean
                                 Evil
                                      Archives
                                               jokes.webdevelop.com/jokes/submit.htm"
                                               onMouseOver="window.status='Submit your Joke';
                                               return true">Submit Joke

