!big!
THE BOY SPY






British computer genius aged 16 put Pentagon in a panic as he hacked
into weapons secrets.


                         Re-typed by CasE

A British schoolboy caused panic at the Pentagon when he hacked into
America's top-secret defnece computers.

Richard Pryce, 16, cracked codes to U.S. Air Force missile systems
using a £750 computer in the bedroom of his London home. Defence
chiefs feared a masterspy had infiltrated intelligence files and
stolen some of the country's most closely-guarded weapons secrets.

Members of the Senate were told he had caused more harm than the KGB.
It took investigators 13 months to track the source of the leak to
England.

Eventually Scotland Yard officers tipped off by the CIA station chief
at the U.S. Embassy, burst into a suburban house in Colindale, North
London.

Inside they found a scene straight out of the 1983 movie War Games.
For the "masterspy" turned out to be a schoolboy hacker. Detectives,
who were shocked to discover Pryce wa just 16, found him at his
keyboard on the third floor of his family home.

Realising they had come to arrest him, he curled up on the floor and
cried.

Music student Pryce, now 19, pleaded guilty yesterday at Bow Street
magistrates court to 12 offences under the Computer Misuse Act. He
was fined £1,200 and ordered to pay £250 costs.

Stipendiary magistrate Ronald Bartle, who described the case as
extraordinary, also ordered his computer equipment to be confiscated.

Afterwards Pryce's father, Nick, recalled the night in May 1994 when
dozens of policemen burst into their home.

Mr Pryce, 49, who restores musical instruments, said: "It was around
7pm adn I was watching TV when about eight cars pulled up and people
started banging on the door. When I answered it, the officers came
filing in and said, `Is Richard Pryce in?' It was like a scene from
the movies. I thought `My God, what has he done?'

"There were so many of them, I thought he must have killed someone.

"They burst into his room and pulled his hands away from his computer
keyboard. They then stripped his room.

"When I went up the stairs he was sitting there in shock while they
were ripping up his floorboards. They searched his room for five
hours.

"They took his computer away, as well as all his A-level books and
our telephone handset."

Mr Pryce, who has two other children, Sally, 17, and Katie, 15, said
neighbours in their quiet crescent of detached houses were horrified.

He added: "They must have thought we were Fred and Rosemary West when
all these cars converged on our house. It was awful."

His wife Alison, 46, said: "We never thought this would go to court.
Richard was just a kid messing about on his computer.

"He wasn't doing anything sinister but he could have gone to prison
for five years. The whole thing has been a terrible strain for the
family. It has been a dreadful three years." Geoffrey Robertson QC,
defending, had earlier told the court that Pryce had been motivated
by the curiosity of a bright teenager and not by malice or financial
gain.

He said he exploited vulnerabilities of computer systems using methods
widely known and he stressed that he had not altered or erased any
data.

Simon Dawson, prosecuting, said when Pentagon officials discovered
someone was tapping into the weapons and aircraft research HQ at
Griffith Air Force Base, New York, they suspected foreign governments
were desperate to get their hands on blueprints for the latest
military hardware.

"The last person they expected to find was a 16-year old schoolboy."

