!big!
The Last Hope ?!




by Stunner/VORTEX

I know that I did not choose the most creative topic for an article about
the actual AMIGA situation, but out of my view it is the right one. The man
who represents "The Last Hope" is Jim Collas and he seems to have the power,
the knowledge and the connections to bring live into this hope. When I read
his first open letter to the AMIGA community, I was surprised about his
enthusiasm and his imaginations for the AMIGA future. It won`t be easy for
him to fulfill this words in the letter, because there is a big hole in the
destiny of our system he has to shut. In the last years we heard many
promises, plans and apologies from different people around the several AMIGA
owners, so it is clear that we have the right to be sceptical. We were
disappointed again and again, many users gave up hope and left the AMIGA and
everybody seems to laugh about the rest of the AMIGA community. Jim "Last
Hope" Collas could be the man who brings us "Back for the Future", but he
could also be the executioner of our system. I am always optimistic in all
parts of life, if it is in school, business, sport or for Vortex, and so
I also was and still am believing that the AMIGA will have a future. It is
not easy to keep up such an attitude, because many people want to buy a
tombstone for the AMIGA and let it rest in peace, but as long there is a
company who invests money in our system, I won`t wear my black clothes. At
the moment Gateway is the company who supports the AMIGA with money and Jim
Collas is the man who has to decide where the money will be used for. He has
no easy job, because he also has to build up a new structure in the AMIGA
company and must visit the places where the AMIGA is still popular to hear
the oppinion of the AMIGA community. His first plans for visiting are chosen
right, for my opinion, with traveling to Germany and England, because this
countries are the most important ones for the AMIGA future. In the home
country of Gateway, the USA, can only be the administrative base for the
AMIGA future, but the secret of success lies in europe and Jim Collas knows
it. So his first steps should be the right ones and as long as he keeps up
going this way we can believe in him and "The Last Hope".

