!big!
THE PRODIGY! - How it all began
!code=073000




Twenty years ago this summer, punk erupted in the music venues of london,
putting an end to a period of stagnation in the record industry.Since
that time,a whole litany of bands have revered that era,and with this
landmark anniversary upon us,even the original upstarts,THE SEX PISTOLS,
have dusted down their bondage trousers and come out of the woodwork.
Every magazine,gig-listing and television schedule is presently full of
punk rock,as a flood of books,records,merchandise and concert try to
revitilse the moment once again.

Ironically,it seems that the best punk record of the year won^t come
from one of the old-timers,nor from one of the many guitar-minded
youngsters who^ve retraced their musical footsteps.It will be the dance
act the Prodigy^s third album,which is out right now.
The musical force behind the band is 23-year-old Liam Howlett,from Brain-
tree in Essex.His fascination with music began during primary school,when
he fell for ska and two tone,after his father gave him a copy of Ska^s
Greatest Hits.On moving up to secondry school,he was immediately attracted
to the new hip-hop culture,became fascinated with by bands like

GRANDMASTER FLASH & THE FURIOUS FIVE,and repeatedly watched the 1984 break
-dancing film,BEAT STREET.

Inevitably,Howlett wanted to perform his own material and,a couple of
years later,a holiday job on a building site earned him enough cash to buy
two cheap turntables.Soon after,he approached a local hip-hop band called
CUT TO KILL,who took on board as their second DJ.For the next two years,
Liam and CUT TO KILL rehearsed hard,although they only gigged sporadically.
Aged 18,Liam passed his A-level in Graphic Design and got a job at the now
defunct London freebie magazine,^Metropolitan^,where he struck up a
friendship with the owner.

!code=118131
BETRAYAL
!code=073000

After playing him a tape of CUT TO KILL,Liam was offered 4,ooo pounds to
record the band^s debut album.  Unfortunately, neither the band nor the
benefactor were at all experienced and so the whole budget wasmistakenly
spent in the studio, leaving nothing for promotion or touring.To compound
matters.  the rest of the band the signed to Tam Tam records behind Liams
back.  The deal excluded him,despite the fact the band used one of his
tracks to win the contract.  This betrayal coincided with Liams dwindling

interest in hip-hop and, following an incident when a knife was pulled on
him at London^s Subterania because he didn^t fit in, he began looking for
new musical pastures.  It was summer of 1988.  While Liam was immersed in
hip-hop, his home country was on a altogether different trip, Acid house,
which had engulfed most of Essex in a tide of flares and ecstasy.The tunes,
like Phuture^s 1987 ACID TRAX,and Derrick May and Juan Atkins work were
minimalist musical hybrids,with mind altering frequencies,relentless rhythms
,unconventional structures and weird off-beat soundscapes.

While pure house music tempered its rhythmic obsession by incorporating
more melodies and harmonies, Acid house pursued rhythm to new extremes,
using new technology to create beats that never have been simulated by human
beings.  Originating in Chicago and Detriot, the music soon crossed the
Atlantic, and took root via massive illegal warehouse parties that formed
the foundation for what became known as RAVE.  It was the era of smart bars
,marathon dancing and a recycled hippy mantra--the second summer of love had
arrived.  Liams first experience of rave culture was a party at the Barn in
Rayne <home to the Shamen^s Mr.C.>.He was immediately converted"I thought it
was the bollocks, such a different experience from the hip-hop scene, which
was a exclusivist, pretentious scene, and to a certain extent, it always
excluded white bands.  Then to experience something like that first night at
the Barn was such a stark contrast, I really loved the music and the whole
vibe.  I never really been into dancing that much, but it did not matter,
because you could just smile and jump around and really enjoy the buzz,you
didn^t have to dance properly".  Within a few months,Liam had started DJ-ing
at these partues and become a well known face on the Essex scene.  However
,he was still too shy to play any material that he had been secretly been
writing.  Enter Leeroy Thornhill, all 6^7" of him, was a James Brown fanatic
who had only taken to the scene after the early, monotone acid house had
developed into something more sofphisticated.  With his lightening-fast feet
,he was the person to be seen with at the Barn.

Keith had left school before his exams and taken up various jobs <including
one as a investigative driller>, before becoming a ^casual^ and then a
devotee of bike culture, smoking dope and listening to 70s legends such as
LED  ZEPPELIN and PINK FLOYD.  When rave arrived in the summer of ^88, he
was travelling around the middle east and Africa, but by the spring of 1989
he was back in Britain.  On return,he was immediately thrown out of his
house--one night he^d been sleeping beside the pyramids of Cairo,the next he
was kipping next to a river in Braintree.

!code=118131
RAVE
!code=073000

A friend of his, Ange,offered him some digs at her house.  She was a keen
raver and when she next went out to an acid house party, Keith tagged along.
After meeting each other at the Barn, Keith and Leeroy became great friends,
going out almost every night and rapidly becoming popular characters om the
circuit.  It was an outdoor rave that Keith first met Liam.  Keith was so
impressed by the tunes that Liam was playing that he asked if he could have
a tape of his mixes.  Liam obliged and put four of his own songs on the B
side.  Keith and Leeroy played the tape late one night after coming back
from a party and were stunned by Liam^s work.  As leeroy adroitly remembers,
"We were buzzing our tits off."The next time they saw Liam they asked him to
play his own material for them to dance alomg to.  He agreed after roping
with a girlfriend, Sharkey, the PRODIGY was formed.  Liam played keyboards,
while Leeroy, Keith and Sharkey danced.

Shortly after, they booked their first P.A. at the Labyrinth in Dalston,
East London, where the promoter told them,"I^ve only ever had two P.A.^s
here before and they were both bottled off after five minutes".  Liam had
felt an MC was needed for the performance,and was put in touch with Maxim
Reality, a reggae MC, originally from Peterborough, who had spent the last
three years in Nottingham.  Maxim had first got into music by watching his
brother MC-ing at varios Peterborough reggae sounds systems.  Once in
Nottingham, Maxim had struck up a fruitful musical partnership with a friend
called Ian Sherwood, and the two had christened themselves Maxim Reality and

Sheik yan groove.  Unfotuantly, their Unorthadox proggresive dance music was
highly unfashionable, and after three fruitless years they split up. Maxim
had enjoyed working with Sherwood, so he went travelling for three months to
chill out and ponder his life.  While he was away, he realised music was his
first passion, and so on his return to England he moved to London.  Shortly
afterwards, a mutual friend put him in touch with the Prodigy.  Tapes were
sent back and forth but their debut gig in Dalston was at such short notice
that the first time that Maxim actually met the band was on the night of the
show.
   
Maxim remebers it as an interesting experience "I just remember being put
on this stage in the middle of the dance scene, with these for people I had
just met. and I just stood at the back with my mic in my hand.  Meanwhile
all of the other band were doing there shit and everyone was going wild,
its just went off.It happened so quickly it was weird, but really good.  I
thought it was wicked but I did^nt think anything more of it other than that
I would like to do it again." Maxim did do again --- a few days later he was
asked to join the band.  With this line up,the Prodigy started to do what
few dance bands had done before them---they gigged.Bands like N-Joy and
Shades Of Rhythm had built a big fan base long before the Prodigy^s arrival
,but it was the sheer weight of hard work done by Howlett that made them big
in the months to come.  Their early shows were ill-attended, like their
fifth gig at Hatfield college where there were only nine people in the crowd
,including five from the support band.  Conversely,their twelth gig was at
Raindance,a massive rave attended by 12,000 people.  In fact, a feature of
the acid house scene was that it offered fledging bands the chance to play
to thousands of people in a way that only young rock acts could only dream
of. What made the Prodigy even more exceptional was that their shows were
live, unlike the DAT-reliant P.A^s of their rivals.
   
During Christmas 1990,Liam announced to the band that he^d secretly signed
a record deal with XL a few weeks previously,though he was continuing to
work at ^Metroplitan^.  He was convinced that the Prodigy was the right
vehicle to take his music wider audience.  However, Sharky thought that
she had too much and left the band at christmas.

           TO  BE CONTINIUED.........
                                         GENETIX/VORTEX                                       
