!big!
Promotion




by Stunner/VORTEX



This article is dedicated to Stelf and Case, who promoted me to an
Organiser of VORTEX.

It was a Staurday evening when I was waiting for a phone call from a friend
of mine, who wanted to drive with me to a disco. Maybe you know such
situations and how boring it can be. I decided to look for new emails to
have something to do until the phone call. Disappointment came up when I
realised that there was only one mail for me, but this mail made me more
happy than any other mail I  received this year. The mail was from Case, one
of the founders of VORTEX, and he informed me about a decision, he and Stelf
made. They promoted me to an Organiser of VORTEX. Now you might think I am
an idiot to write an article about such a theme, but it is not as easy as it
seems.

When I was recruited from Stelf as a musician for VORTEX, I never
thought of becoming something else in the group. Writing modules was alright
for me and I was just happy to be a member. After some time I realised that
I don`t have to write any modules for VORTEX, because there were no
projects. Then I started to manage projects by myself and one day I became
manager of the euro side of VORTEX. It was no big thing, because there were
only a few members that did not come out the UK. I recruited some more
"continental" members to bring "my" euro side forward. Things were running
well and we released our first productions. It was normal that also the UK
members joined the projects and I never thought of having problems, but
after some time I got them. Some people didn`t care about me and made
promises they never made to become true. I was unable to understand why they
should do so and I asked around for the possible reasons. It was absolutely
silly what I got to know about them. Some people thought they don`t have to
support any projects I have planned, because I am only the euro guy who
thinks that he is important. Another thing I never thought it could be a
problem one day is the language. I know that my english isn`t perfect and
I`m always asking Case to correct my articles, because I know this. The
english language was told me at school and I never visited the UK, the USA
or Australia to improve it. My view is nobody can expect me to speak (or
write) as good as he does speak his native language. I can imagine that my
emails sound funny for someone out of the UK, but I cannot understand it
when people ignore me because of my unperfect language. It really is
unimportant whether my language is perfect or not - the main thing is we
have a well running group with talanted and motivated members.

For me it was always a big problem that some people didn't care for some
projects. They did not even try to understand what my ideas were and so were
quite inactive.

In the last weeks the whole situation became better and VORTEX now runs
pretty good. My promotion is not a sign of it, but soon there will be more
VORTEX releases for sure.

I cannot expect people work harder now, just because I became an Organiser.
It is just a word, but for me it is a signal that my work for VORTEX was
not for the trashcan.

Now the moment has come where I have to thank JadeFalcon, who realised my
"euro" problem and spoke to Case and Stelf because of it. Without him I
wouldn't be an Organiser, because I never asked Case or Stelf myself.
Although I have had some it has always been fun to manage VORTEX.

For the future I hope to be able to continue organising in the way I am
doing at the moment.

Reading this article back it looks a bit selfish, but it is a good feeling
to have written it. Perhaps some of you now get a better understanding of
the work I do for VORTEX. Thanks for reading this article. 
