Reliability
by Stunner/VORTEX

One year and a few months ago, Stelf/VORTEX asked me to manage the euro site
of VORTEX. Before his request I was in the group as a musician and was
really surprised about this offer. I did agree and started to organize the
group with my best will. Recruiting new members, starting new projects and
answering questions was completely new for me, but after some time I learned
to handle it. It made - and still makes - fun, so there was nothing to be
angry about, except one thing. RELIABILITY. Out of my view, reliability is
one of the most important qualities you can have and in a scene group, like
VORTEX, it is the only way to guarantee new releases. When someone tells me
that he will do the one or the other work for a production, I believe him.
As a matter of fact there are many different people in a scene group and
each of them has his own understanding of the word "reliability", so it is
normal that some people need more time than others to fulfill their promises.
Also I accept when someone doesn`t have the time to do his work, but then he
can tell me and I would ask another person. The problem I am sick of is the
attitude to promise something, knowing exactly that it won`t become true. I
don`t want to attack someone special, because most people are reliable in
their own way, but I also got to know the other side. Promises, promises and
no result. If it is only me who cares about that it wouldn`t matter. The
main point are the other members who ask me about different projects and I
tell them what another member promised me. So it is me who looses his
credibility and that isn`t correct. All things would work more perfect when
everybody increase his reliability. I don`t want to say that I am reliable
in every situation, but I try my best and if I did disappoint someone, I
apologize for it and the thing will run better next time. Normally I hate
people writing articles like this one, telling others how to be correct. In
that case it is necessary, I think, because some people just have to think
about this theme. I know that this argument is chosen in many articles and
out of my view it isn`t always correct to use it, because you cannot think
about every problem in the world. Reliability cares each of us and so it
does matter if you are reliable or not. Everybody want to trust other people
to have more safety in his life and there is no better way to get it than
with reliability.

