
				Silltunna Software
			       --------------------

Silltunna Software are a new software development company who currently 
specialise in Amiga and PC software.  Our forthcoming Amiga release is the
Amiga's answer to Doom and although it is only in the early stages of 
development (the planned release date is March 1 1995). We have contacts
with several major companies and magazines.

Backers
     Well known Amiga musician Alistair Brimble will be doing much of our SFX,
     and can provide financial backing as well as publicity. And we also have
     financial backing of our own of course.

Contact

     Any files should be send to the Silltunna BBS, which also takes in
     the best Amiga/PC demos BTW!

     It is recommended that programming teams contact Alex first since
     he will be taking a look at any proposed games, and he will also
     want to see examples of your programming if you would like a job.

     Musicians or artists should contact Richard for the same reasons. 
    
     Companies should contact Richard Whittall at the address/phone number
     below.

     Silltunna Software can be contacted in any of the following ways...     
  
Snail-mail:              Richard Whittall		Alex Amsel
                         Silltunna Software		Rm N202 Lafrowda
                         5 Wyvern Close			Cornwall House
                         Wellesbourne			St Germans Rd
                         WARWICKSHIRE			Exeter
                         CV35 9TA			Devon
                         UK				EX4 6TG
							UK

Telephone:                    +44 (0)789 842105 [Voice/BBS]
Fax (phone first!):           +44 (0)789 842105
EMail:                        silltunna@pmgl.demon.co.uk               
                              a.j.amsel@exeter.ac.uk          
Fidonet:                      2:2500/167.35


BBS opening hours :
	Every Night : 10pm -> 9am UK Time
	Sunday also open all morning until approx 12.00 pm

The Silltunna Support BBS is the "home" of Silltunna Software.  The BBS will
have all the latest information on Silltunna software and any Silltunna
products.  The latest pd and private demos, upgrades, add-ons, etc... will also
be here - but their availability will depend on your access level.

We are really looking out for people who wish work in the games industry,
and who preferably have a game in progress. We can provide publishing deals,
general help or advice, music or graphics, gameplay ideas, and so on.
The games can be on the Amiga or PC.

We are also always looking for good Amiga or PC demos, so if you have one 
don`t hesitate to upload it. Please *only* upload the very best ones :)
	
You can upload anything but in the main you will already know what 
we want so upload that!  If you have an Amiga or PC demo you wrote
then upload it and we will look at it and get back to you a.s.a.p
- we are always looking for new coders/musicians/artists.

NOTE : All private uploads will be dealt with in the strictest confidence.


