
                   In the spurious " we are back " serie


                                  B.O.M.B
             


       Is proud to present a new experiment in no-sense demonstation


                              S.H.A.F.T  n°7
                              (Revision 2.0)

            -featuring... 

                               Coding : Ben
                           Gfxs & objects : Axel
                         Bomb logo & gfxs : Titan
                          Shaft7 picture : Made 
                           Music : Yolk & Legend


                        First Place at THE PARTY 6


1. ABOUT REVISION :

   Uses now different chunky2planar routines on low machines
   The credits-part fucked up on the big screen, it is fixed.
   When screens swapped, there was naughty flash, no more now.
   Should be 040 and 060 fixed...
   Some small bugs removed


2. HOW TO WATH THE DEMO :

   Just copy the files from the archives to a directory ; 
   and execute : SHAFT7.EXE

3. SOME STATEMENTS :

	- all effects are 1x1 so you shouldn't ask yourself if they are
	  in 1x2 or 2x2. Also no mirror cheating needed...

	- Watch them Dogs.

	- We would Like to send our respects to Azure/Artwork, Murk/sonic
	  and to Destop/Cncd for keeping so high our pleasure when watching
	  there productions...  Keep doin' what you're doin'

	- Greetings to : Orcus, Spock, Calisto, Dyze, Uz, Darky, Snag, Zex
			 Xann, Goyan, Ace, Zeugma, Gryzor, Gengis, Oxbab,
			 Spiral, Niko, Mon, Ninja, Hof, Reflex, Nam, Alex,
			 Jumbo Burger, AudioMonster, Dune, Mr Vatin, Zeb, Edw
			 Hardfire, haplo, Gelmir, Yolk & legend, Lca, zappy  
			 Patapom, Rez, and everybody at the party

	- A very special thank must go to : Zack/Giant, Sixpack/Gods and
          Scanx/Emergency for supplying us their tv cable at the party place
          bcoz without you, it would not have been possible... 

	- To the Party Organizers : Where the fuck were the showers...

                        
	- Beware of Dogs.


4. DEMO REQUIREMENTS :

   This demo should work on basical A1200+4Mb fast mem and a HD, but you
   should run it from a 030 at 40 MHz (or better) with 8Mb and a -FAST-
   HD... Otherwise you will have some synchronization problems, and so on.
   Sorry to all those who haven't such systems, but rules at the Party were
   quite cool !! Finally, you shouldn't run it from an Overdrive...


5. BOMB NOTE BOOK :


	- Current Members of Bomb are at the moment :

					- Gengis (Pc coder)
					- Zappy (Pc coder)
					- Patapom (Pc coder)
					- Ben (Amiga coder)
					- Titan (Gfxs)
					- Made (Gfxs)
					- Axel (Gfxs)
					
	we don't know other names...


