Few vocal expressions to computer sceners.

The  "Sketch-Tintology2" demonstration was produced to pure merriment.
But,  as  usual,  an unspecified number quite usually paradigm rocking
thing are in. Foremost of all, if you can't remeber what was the first
version of Tintology-Vogue about, let the undersigned remind. In those
days, all the productions where almost identical. The same arrangement
styles,  the  same  objects,  in  addition to even "tinctures". It was
extremely,  extremely  depress to see what is the scene morphing into.
Into  the  proportional  quantity  of  brainless members of the public
without  any  bright  concepts.  Like the cloned sheeps. Everybody was
thinking this way: if TBL is such a star producting Tint, why can't I?
I  solely  have to produce an unspecified number of identical objects,
backgrounds  ect,  in addition to everybody will love the undersigned.
Ignorant  masses  did  not  remember  that the most important thing in
every art-projects is individuality. Of course, you can borrow without
a plan for returning an unspecified number concepts, (Picasso averred,
that  financially  challenged  limner  are  replicating,  optimum  are
stealing:), but damn, not all the things! That was the Tintology for.

But  immediately,  non-spatial  continuum  is flow, others, and me are
getting  older,  in addition to an unspecified number of things on the
scene  is  also  varied  and  numerous. But it does not mean superior.
Scene  is  REALLY  waiting for euthanasia. People are out of concepts.
There  is  inproductivity.  Scene  is  really  dying.  Wise people are
quiting  the  scene,  because they have knowledge of, that they feline
realize those ones identical with them as the limners. Nowadays, scene
is  negative fornicating digital underground, like in the past. It's a
couple of bored ignorant masses, who don't even have knowledge of, why
are  they  doing  those  things  for,  what  are  they doing. Like the
manufacturing  plant  producing  colorfull  TVs for blinds. It have to
collapse.  The  sketch demonstration is to articulate to you about it.
Endeavor to be more innowate.

Do  not  make  any computer gettos aroud you. It really kills. Make as
much art pesentations as you can. Spread them to non scenes magazines.
Large  amount  of  paper-zines  with  CD's  will spread your work with
pleasure.  Maybe  some  time,  a  limner  self-important member of the
department  unit  will  call  you in addition to get you a preliminary
concept  to  toil  in unison. I and others desire, that you have a big
spirit in you, in addition to endeavor. An unspecified number of scene
maniacs did already originate, with extremely terrific to bring about.
Endeavor  to  explode  the  scene  concepts to the complete assemblage
computational   integrated   circuit   machine  macroenvironment.  For
example:  Apatia  (nomen-omen),  Wierza's arrangement electronic music
data  storage  component is procurable on Amiga, Macintosh in addition
to  Windows95/NT  mode of operations. Real soon now will be procurable
as intricately contrived complex network site in addition to X-windows
aplication.  Negative lines of demarcation. It's nor really difficult.
Endeavor. Optimum whises.

Features demonstration was produced on Amigas in addition to PC's. All
the  code building blocks were completed by our coders, but we have to
admit, that we used the V++ with Demomaniac core. All the photos where
digitized  on PC and then processed on the Photoshop. Music where also
composed on PC.

What  optional  do  you  want  to  have  knowledge of? Maybe about our
web-site?  Its  whereabouts  is:  www.venture.art.pl  Go there if, you
dare.  Large  amounts  of  extremely  interesing things are there. Our
non-old  standard  operating  procedure  about  features demonstration
making,  art  undertakings  in addition to fruits of creative efforts.
Photos  in addition to optional material. Also without exception up to
date  scene  communique,  non-related  work  activity  unless  release
waivers  are signed fruitful outcomes in addition to thing from really
digital  underground  gurus.  See  ya  there.  Wait  for  our optional
productions  in addition to endeavor to watch the our boys-band video!
Both  productions  at  what locale released at the Intel-Outside party
'998. By the way, what a silly name for a party:).

Korbatz/Venture '998

Ps. Text was 'spiced' on PC too :)
