HD Installer for Lemmings : 7 VERSIONS
Author: jffabre@ensica.fr (Jean-François Fabre)

Lemmings is ©1992 Psygnosis.
Oh No More Lemmings is ©1992 Psygnosis.

--- Lemmings Budget Hard Disk Installer ---

This installer requires the ORIGINAL disk(s) from Lemmings,
Lemmings Budget or Oh No More Lemmings.

It will NOT work for cracked versions.

The HD-Patched game will need about 1.5Mb of memory 
for the 1 disk version and 3.5Mb for the 2 disk version, but 
you can use the HDLOAD tooltype to reduce memory 
consumption.


FEATURES:
- Runs fully from RAM/HD
- 7 versions supported.
- Works using JOTDStartup (jst), included in the archive.
- Convenient installer script
- Can be run either in PAL or NTSC (country check removed)
- All versions run on a standard A1200/020/NoFast
- F10 quits the game
- Disk, code checksum and password protection removed (hard work)
- TRAINER tooltype gives infinite time

SUPPORTED VERSIONS:
- Lemmings Original PAL (2 versions, one with screen centered 
   vertically)
- Lemmings Original NTSC
- Oh No More Lemmings NTSC
- Oh No More Lemmings NTSC (trackdos disk version)
- Oh No More Lemmings PAL
- Lemmings Budget PAL

If somebody has got Lemmings CD32, Lemmings Budget NTSC,
or any other unsupported version, please let me know.


INSTALLING THE GAME:
Just run the installer script relevant to your version. The 
installers will install different games in different directories 
so you can install all the versions at a time. If you did not install 
JST before, copy it in your path (better in C:). The installer also 
checks that you inserted the correct disk. In case of problem
during the installation, you can partially re-install the game 
by hand using the rippsyfiles command.

After that you just have to adjust the tooltypes and start the 
game by clicking on the LemmingsHD icon or by typing 
LemmingsHD <options> in a shell.

THANKS:
To D. Cresswell for providing the original of Lemmings 
Budget, beta-testing, trainer hints and file logging. To Troy 
Pladson for providing the original of Oh No More Lemmings 
NTSC. The other people who sent me some files so I could 
adapt to their version. The users who reported me bugs.

There are some minor bugs in the intro animation (2 disk 
version) but not in the latest version. It works fine from 
floppy, and I can't figure out why this happens. Not serious
anyway.

This install really meant hard work, because of the strong 
protection, and also because of the several different versions
that exist.

Enjoy this cool game from Psygnosis on your HD. I hope
 you appreciate the effort.


