
           @3               ALL TERRAIN RACING - REVIEW

              @7                  by zYLAX / PTK

@4Ahhh..   I can sense an aroma caressing the sensitive interior of my nose.  Can
it  be  the  scent  of  melted  rubber on tarmac?  Ahhh, I've recognised it now
it's...SHIT!    Yeah,  the  pleasures  of  life  in  the  countryside:   peace,
tranquility  and  the  smell  of  cack  drifting into ya nostrils from a nearby
soddin'  great  pile of manure.  The farmer (who, may I add, has now earned the
title  of  twat!)  decided to dump this shyte on a day so hot that I risk being
electrocuted by my Amiga coz of the sweat that's pouring into the keyboard, and
meaning  I've  got  to have every single window in the room open to avoid being
roasted like a chicken!

So,  I'm  hot,  sticky  and  currently  having my sence of smell decayed by the
constant  scent  of  manure  flowing into my nose!  And, I've attempted to make
this relevant to a review of ATR from Team 17.  I NEED SLEEP!!!!

Anyway,  ATR  (which is a perfectly respectable acronym for ALL TERRAIN RACING)
is  obviously  intended  to  be a kind of sequel to Team 17's previous overhead
racing sim:  Overdrive.

Although,  technically,  it  comes  nowhere  near  to  Super  Skidmarks, it's a
playable  enough  little  game.  There are three different types of vehicle you
can  drive,  including  buggy's, sports cars and formula one, depending on your
level  of  skill.  There are also a variety of terrains to race over and these,
again,  are  set  according  to  difficulty.   For example, the snow levels are
slippery  and therefore hard while the roads are pretty simple.  Plus, there is
also a secret space level hidden somewhere in the game.

Unfortunately, ATR is not without a few minor quirks.  One of these is actually
seeing  the track.  On the snow level, especially, the bounderies of the tracks
are  not clearly visible and I've lost count of how many times I've drove right
into  fences.  This is not too serious though as it can be overcome once you're
learnt the routes a bit.

ATR  is  another  great  little  game  from  Team  17, but take a look at Super
Skidmarks first if you like this type of game.

           @1                         COMMENT
        Rev' your engine and accelerate (if ya can see where ya going!)

                            @5     RATING - 85%