
            @4                  DEATHMASK - REVIEW

              @5                  by zYLAX / PTK@1

Ever since the release of the infamous Doom on the PC, there was bound to be an
Amiga clone lurking around the corner.  Now, Deathmask steps out of the shadows
and reveals itself to the waiting world.  But is it the promised gore-fest or a
DOOMED sack of shyte?

Firstly,  anyone  expecting  a  direct  conversion of DOOM is going to be sadly
disappointed.   As  good  as  the  Amiga  is, a basic 500 just doesn't have the
processor power to run a full-blown DOOM clone.  The creators of this game have
obviously  realised  this  fact  and  have made use of a new method of making a
first-person  perpective  game.   The main objective for the programmers was to
ensure  that  the game was kept running at a decent speed on low spec machines,
this  has  been achieved by sacrificing some of the freedom of movement you get
in  DOOM.   Deathmask  restricts  you  to  moving  a  set distance in each step
backward  or  forwards  and  you  can  only rotate in angles of ninety degrees.
Although  not  as  visually  impressive as using the real-time, texture mapping
technique of DOOM, it requires a great deal less processor power and allows the
game  to be played at a suitable speed (plus, it even makes a simultaneous, two
player game feature possible.).

But,  for  now,  forget  about  any  vague  DOOM  connections the game may have
because,  although I hate to admit it, this fails miserably as an Amiga version
of DOOM.

As  a  stand-alone  game  though,  Deathmask  has  a  lot  going  for  it.  The
programming  has  been well thought out:  recognition of external drives and an
extra  detail  option  on the menu for A1200 owners.  This may seem obvious and
unimportant  but  it's surprising how many games don't include features such as
these.  Sound has been kept to a minimum with only a simple intro muzik for the
menu screen and a few, atmospheric, sound effects while playing.  Graphics have
also been simplified in order to keep the game running at a decent rate.

It's  all  very  well  going  on  about  the looks of the game, but that's only
cosmetic.   What's  does it actually play like?  Gameplay is the most important
element  in  any game and, in my opinion, Deathmask has shitloads of it!  You'd
be  amazed how much fun it is running around dark corridors, shooting strangers
with  a  ruddy  great  mini-gun  for no good reason whatsoever.  (Of course, it
might  have  something  to  do  with  the fact that they seem to have a simliar
disregard  for your life.  In fact, they feel a hate for you that stems so deep
into  their  hearts that not even a major poster and leaflet campaign, combined
with  a  charity  jumble  sale, can satisfy their need to see your blood.) But,
there  comes  a  time when you tire of destroying the population of the virtual
world  and,  fortunately,  this problem has been solved with the inclusion of a
two  player version of the game.  Yes, you can even relieve your mates of their
life's  (...and  experience  the feeling of your head being separated from your
body  in a fit of rage, in the real world, depending on the psychological state
of  the person you're playing against.  @3 [err..actually, I think I'll decline
your kind offer of a dual match, Gobliiin!  zYLAX!])@1

Overall,  the  game  is enjoyable enough if you like the type of genre and will
keep ya going for a while.

@5                                    COMMENT
Taken on it's own, a great little game but it left my DOOM trousers unstained!


@4                                 OVERALL - 85%
