
                                 DREAMWEB HELP
@3
                                by zYLAX / PTK
@4
DreamWeb  hmmm...   so  it's  got sex, violence and an 18 certificate.  At this
point I would like to make it clear that I played this game purely for research
purposes  only  and  I am in no way a sadistic, perverted individual (well, not
normally).
Anyway, here's some hints for trainee psychopaths:@1


@5VICTIM ONE - DAVID CRANE@1

     (1)  Before leaving Eden's flat make sure you have your wallet and the
          contents of the microwave.

     (2)  Take the wrench and the screwdriver from Eden's garage.

     (3)  Can't get into your flat? Look in your wallet.

     (4)  To access the network, type @3LOGON RYAN@1 and use the password
          @3BLACKDRAGON@1. Some of the network commands you can use are @3READ@1
          and @3LIST@1 as well as filenames.

     (5)  Examine and read cartridges.

     (6)  Go and talk to Louis in his flat (yeah, while he having a dump) and
          don't forget the footwear when you leave.

     (7)  Make sure you have a chat with the people in Sparky's bar.

     (8)  Talk to the bartender in the pool hall.

     (9)  Get a room in the hotel.

     (10) Use the lift and pick up the axe.

     (11) Can't find Crane! Try using the knife from your flat in the hotel
          lift.


@5VICTIM TWO - GENERAL FORGOTHISNAME@1

     (1)  Use the back entrance of the TV studio and enter by force.

     (2)  That brochure looks suspicious!

     (3)  Use the screwdriver on the fusebox.

     (4)  How do you kill the General? I think FLATTEN THE FUCKER explains
          it.


@5VICTIM THREE - SARTAIN@1

     (1)  Get the crystel from the DreamWeb.

     (2)  Go to Eden's house and examine the purple shirt more closely.

     (3)  Pick up any mug and chuck it into your inventory.

     (4)  Use the door code @37833@1 at Sartain Industries. (I used the
          solution to get it coz I couldn't find it anywhere!)

     (5)  Computer making you stressed? Use your gun!

     (6)  Keep getting killed by Sartain's bodyguards? What do you have
          that's purple and protective.

     (7)  Get the contents of the briefcase.


@5VICTIM FOUR - UNDERWOOD@1

     (1)  Get the wirecutters from the car park.

     (2)  Get the cartridge from Chapel's house.

     (3)  To access the cartridge, use @3LOGON BECKETT@1 and @3SEPTIMUS@1 as
          the password.

     (4)  The railing at the beach near the boathouse looks loose!

     (5)  Fill the cup at the pipe.

     (6)  Fried by laser? Find a junction box and see what you can do with
          a railing and a cup of water.


@5VICTIM FIVE - DR BECKETT@1

     (1)  What tool would you use to open the church gates?

     (2)  Take the hand.

     (3)  At the alter, use the hand and move it.

     (4)  Examine the jar and take the jem.

     (5)  Push the stone slab and put the jems on the stone tile.

     (6)  Match the symbol at the statue with that in the Diary of a
          Madman. (Of course this will depend on your level of morals, ie
          have you got the original game and manual or are you playing a
          cracked copy? If you've got the broken one then your gonna have
          to do this bit by trial and error.)

     (7)  Fill the mine cart with rocks.

     (8)  Oh, and run away from Beckett and watch the train! HA! HA! (Cue
          maniac-type laugh)