

@7                                 ESCOMMODORE
@1
   Yes,  yes,  yes,  FRIGGIN'  YES!   Commodore  has  finally been bought by PC
experts  ESCOM  after  12(ish)  months and has been renamed Amiga Technologies.
The  date of this buy out was the 20th of April 1995 (A date to remember) for a
wickedly  low  $10 million US dollars.  David Pleasance and Colin Proudfoot are
sadly  out  of  this rat race, but it seems an old favourite is not out for the
count, the C64 is being remade and shipped over for the Chinese market who have
also  been  given the rights to produce a new low end Amiga.  (Excellent!  Just
what we need to attract new younger peeps to our excellent machine.) The A1200,
A4000  and CD32 will probably be in the shops by the time this mag is released.
@3[Although,  it  will  be  a  re-designed  CD32 to compete with the Saturn and
Playstation.  zYLAX!]@1

   The  prices  of the above machines has not yet been set, but I have been led
to believe that it is going to be cheaper that ever before seen for such a high
spec  machine,  especially as the new A1200 will have a 68030 proccesor and the
A4000 will have a 68060 proccesor in it.  They will be running AmigaDOS 3.1 and
using  the  rather good AGA chip sets, due to the AAA being shelved permanently
(I heard from one lame brain that it was the best chip set ever (yeah, right)).
The  new  A4000T  began  production  in  September this year and most have been
pre-sold into retail (allegedly).

   The  future looks rather rosey, as new Amigas will be boxed with Scala MM300
and the new rework of the A1200,A4000 and CD32s (new cases and added CD-ROM for
one  thing).   There  is  interest  in  a RISC system, plus a six million pound
advertising campaign and the promise of Amigas in Escom shops (the old Rumbalow
shops  to  me and you) in Britian are just around the corner.  As for games and
software I have only heard of the inclusion of Scala MM300, but who knows, with
new  and  better  games like Colonization and Super Skidmarks 2, plus utilities
like  Real  3D  v3  and DPaint V to name, but a few excellent new products that
have  come  to  pass  since the end of Commodore.  We could have an Amiga boxed
with  just  about  anything,  although  I  hope Directory Opus 5 is included as
standard.

   On a sad note, one company to really feel the strain of the Commodore demise
is  THE ONE magazine who sadly ceased production with their August issue.  They
hopefully  are going to set up business again if or when the Amiga market picks
up.

                   @4                G B I I
                                    O L I N 9T5