
    @5                          GRAPEVINE GOES AGA

  @4                              by zYLAX / PTK

@1Any  loyal  Amiga  owner cannot have failed to have heard of Grapevine.  But to
those  ignorant  few who are still looking puzzled, here's a brief explanation.

Grapevine  is  a  disk  magazine  produced  by LSD.  The first four issues were
single-file,  message box intros intended for the scene, but from issue five it
turned  into  a  fill  blown  disk  magazine.   It  has currently reached issue
twenty-one  and because of it's diverse range of subjects, is very popular with
those within or outside the scene.

But  from  issue twenty-two, Grapevine plans to go AGA only in order to improve
the  quality  of  the  magazine.  How this decision will affect the magazine is
unknown.   It  really  depends  on how many Amiga owners (and regular Grapevine
readers and contributors) actually own A1200's and A4000's.

As  well  as  going  AGA,  there are many other features that are planned to be
implemented  in  future  editions.  These include changing the article cruncher
used  from  PowerPacker  to  Crunchmania.   Due  to  the more efficient packing
algorithm  used  in  Crunchmania,  the articles will be compressed to a smaller
size than before and this may result in Grapevine going back to a one-disker.

In order to squeeze the magazine onto a single disk, only one music module will
be  included  in each issue (as opposed to the usual three).  But there will be
an  option  included  to allow you to load your own modules into Grapevine, the
size  of  which  will  only depend upon the amount of memory you've got in your
Amiga.

Pazza  has  retired  from  his role as a Grapevine editor so he can devote more
time to writing articles and keeping up his swapping within the scene.  (He may
even get some free time inbetween if he's lucky!!!!)

A  version  of  your  favourite  magazine is also being developed for the PC by
Maximan  and  Shagratt  of  LSD.   The finished release will only require a 386
machine,  equipped  with  1  meg  of  ram.   (It'll  be  hard drive only.  But,
obviously,  you guessed that!) Future issues will also provide support for PC's
with Soundblaster cards.

In the final analysis, the jump to AGA had to be done sooner or later, and with
the  quality  of  Grapevine  being  constantly improved on, LSD have just about
pushed  themselves  into a corner concerning the limitations of the current OCS
and  ECS  machines.   Therefore,  an  AGA  Grapevine  was  inevitable  and will
hopefully continue to dominate the world of Amiga disk magazines in this form.