
        @5       THE SECRET OF MONKEY ISLAND 2 - LECHUCK`S REVENGE
                                 THE SOLUTION

          @4                   Typed by zYLAX / PTK
                        Original text from Amiga Format

@3[The  following  solution  was  taken from an ancient issue of Amiga Format.  I
think it was the one with the original AMOS on the coverdisk.  zYLAX!]


@1Get ready for the complete (yes,really!) solution:

@5PART ONE - THE LARGO EMBARGO@1
Pick up the shovel by the sign and walk over the bridge, where you`ll be mugged
by  Largo.   Walk  to  the window, pick up the knife from the table and go back
outside.   Walk  to  the  door  on  the  left  and pick up the paper.  When the
cartographer  rubs  his  eyes, quickly grab his monicle.  Walk to the hatch and
talk  to  the  bar  keeper.  Wait for Largo to leave, then use the paper on the
spit  that  is  on  the wall.  Walk to the upper deck and go to the ship at the
back.   Pick  up the bucket, then persuade the men to let you take it.  Walk to
the  far right of the screen and go to the swamp.  Use the bucket on the swamp.
Go  back  to the path, up to the cemetary, then to the graves on the hill.  Use
the  shovel  on the grave, pick up the bone, then go back to Woodtick.  Walk to
the  ship  on  the  far  left  and  use  the knife on the rope that tethers the
alligator.   When  the  innkeeper  leaves,  pick  up the bowl to get the cheese
squigglies.   Walk  through  the door at the back.  Pick up the toupee, use the
bucket of mud on the door, then go behind the dressing screen.  Largo will walk
into the room, trigger the trap, and then dash off to the laundry.

Walk  to  the ship where you got the bucket (Mad Marty`s) and wait for Largo to
leave.  Go back to his room and close the door.  On the back of the door you`ll
find  a  laundry  ticket,  which  you  must take to Mad Marty`s ship.  Give the
ticket  to  the  laundry  guy  and  you`ll  collect a fetching piece of Largo`s
attire.   Go  back to the swamp and use the coffin.  Row to the right until you
come to a shack.  Paddle over to the shack, pick up the string on the table and
walk  to  the  right.   Ask  the  voodoo  lady  about business and continue the
conversation  about  Largo.  When she asks for the voodoo ingredients, give her
the  four  objects  - the spit, the toupee, the bones and the bra.  When you`ve
got  the  voodoo  doll,  go  back  to Largo`s room, quickly use the pins in the
voodoo  doll,  and it`s bye bye Largo.  After talking to the voodoo lady again,
go  to  the  beach and pick up the stick.  Wander back to Marty`s laundry, open
the  box  and  use  the  stick  on it.  Use the string on the stick and use the
cheese  squiggles on the box.  Walk to the other end of the string and wait for
the  rat  to  scrurry  under the box to munch on the tasty squiggles.  Pull the
string,  open  the box and pick up the rat.  Walk to the window and use the rat
in the vichyssoise.  Go back round to the hatch and ask the barkeeper about the
stew,  and take the job when the chef gets the sack.  Walk to the window and go
to  the  peninsula  at the bottom - left hand side of the island.  Skank to the
houseboat, give the monocle to Captain Dread and charter a ship.


@5PART  TWO  - THE FOUR MAP PIECES@1
Pick  up the bag of parrot chow and walk to the door.  Ask what your choices of
destinations are and set sail Booty island.  Open the door to the left and walk
through it, you're now in Booty Boutique.  Buy the `Beware of Parrot` sign, the
saw  and  the  ship`s  horn.   Put  the parrot chow on the hook to distract the
bird`s  attention  then buy the mirror.  Talk to the shopkeeper, who says he`ll
only  part  with  the  map  piece  in  exchange for the figurehead from the Mad
Monkey.   Go  out  of the door, walk to the right, talk to the woman in the big
hat  and  ask  for a leaflet.  Walk to Stan`s door, tell him you have to go and
he`ll  give  you  a handkerchief.  Then it`s back to the boat and tell Dread to
sail  over  to  Phatt  Island.   Pretty soon you`ll find yourself incarcerated.
Pick  up  the  rock hard mattress and the stick.  Use the stick on the bone and
then  pick up the bone.  Use the bone on Walt, pick up the small key and use it
on  the cell door.  It`s hardly Escape from Alcatraz, but it`s still good for a
laugh.   Open  the  two  envelopes  and  walk  to the door.  Use Captain Kate`s
leaflet  on  the  wanted  poster  and  walk  to  the  library.   Open the model
lighthouse  and  take  out the lens.  Look at the card catalogue, open the draw
labeled  C/D and find a card called Disasters.  Look in the P/Q/R draw and pull
out  the  recipes  card.   Go to the librarian and ask for `Joy of Hex`, `Great
Shipwreaks  of Our Century`, and any third book.  Leave the library and walk to
the  front  alley.   When the man leaves, follow him, open the slot on the door
and ask for the next number.  The answer is the number of fingers the man holds
up  first.  Go back to the alley and ask the man for a game.  Bet on the number
you  were  told  and  then  ask for a party invitation.  Go to Governor Platt`s
mansion  and talk to the guard.  When you get a chance, tell him there`s a fire
in  the  kitchen  and walk to the stairs.  Swap the third book you picked up at
the  library  with the one on the bed and return to Dread`s ship.  Set sail for
Scabb Island.

When you get there, walk to the hatch and talk to the bar keeper.  Ask for some
grog  and  give him your library card.  Buy all three drinks and use the yellow
drink  on  the  blue  drink.   Use  the crazy straw on the green drink, use the
banana on the metronome and pick up Jojo.  Go to the men of low moral fibre and
saw  off the guy`s wooden leg.  Walk to the door by the toll bridge and pick up
the  hammer  and  nails - the woodcutter is tending the poor chap who`s leg you
amputated.   Back  to  Booty Island for more fun.  Go to the costume shop, give
the  invitation  to the shopkeeper and pick up the dress.  Go to Stan`s and ask
about  a  used  coffin.   When he get in one, close it and use the nails on it.
Pick  up the crypt key, which is on the board at the back of the shop, and then
leave and walk to the path on the right.  Join the spitting contest and use the
ship`s  horn.  When the spitmaster walks off, pick up the flags.  Use the crazy
straw  and  the  green  drink  and  walk to the fault line.  Spit when the wind
blows.   Go  back to the antique shop, give the dealer your plague and persuade
him  to  buy  it.   You`ll probably have to work your way through a load of old
hogwash  to make him want the junk you are offering.  He`ll pay you 6000 pieces
o`  eight.   Leave  the  shop and look at the `Great Shipwreaks` book which you
borrowed  from the library.  Remember the coordinates of the sunken galleon and
then  go  free  Captain  Kate  from  jail.   While you are in the jail take the
vanilla  envelope  from  the  shelf and open it to reveal some near-grog.  Then
charter  her  ship.  Get her to sail to the coordinates given in the book, then
dive  over  the side for the galleon.  Pick up the monkey head and then pick up
the  anchor or the rope to get back to the surface.  Head for Booty Island, and
then  give  the antique dealer the monkey head and claim the first piece of the
map.

Walk  to  the  path  on  the  left and go to the governor`s mansion.  Give your
invitation to the guard and put on your costume.  Go into the mansion, and pick
up  the map piece from the picture frame and try to leave.  Try your hardest to
persuade  Elaine  to come back to you, but you`ll always fail, she`ll throw the
map  piece  out of the window and Guybrush will be kicked out.  It`s about time
he was given a good seeing to.  Go back upstairs and take the oar down from the
wall.   Go  back  outside  and  try to pick up the map piece.  Walk over to the
woods  on  the right and change clothes.  Walk back to the mansion, pick up the
dog  and  walk to the side of the house.  Knock over the garbage can by picking
it  up,  and  quickly  walk to the front to the front.  Walk to the side of the
house  on  the  other side, preferably before the chef catches you, and walk to
the door.  Pick up the fish and sail off to Phatt Island.  Walk to the pier and
talk  to the fisherman - it`s his pole your after.  Accept his bet and give him
the  fish.  When you`ve got his pole, go back to Booty Island, walk to the path
on  the  left  and  go to the cliff.  Walk to the edge of the cliff and use the
fishing  pole  on the map.  Follow the seagull to Big Tree.  Once you`re there,
get  the  plank that is sticking out of the tree, and use it on the hole in the
far left of the trunk.  Use the oar on the hole next to it, then walk on to the
big root just to the left.  Climb onto the oar via the plank Guybrush will fall
and  hit  his  head.   Guybrush  is  now in slumberland dreaming of a song, and
writing  down the words on the spit-encrusted paper.  when he wakes up, pick up
the  broken oar and head for Woodtick, where Woody (the carpenter) will fix the
oar  (if  you  ask him nicely).  Return to Big Tree, climb onto the plank, then
use  the  newly-fixed oar in the hole to the right.  Walk on to that, then pick
up  the  plank  and  use  it  in the next hole along.  Keep on doing this until
Guybrush  takes  over and climbs to the top.  Walk to the small hut and pick up
the  telescope.   Go to the bigger hut in the middle of the screen, and use the
dog  to  sniff the pile of maps - he will pick out the second piece of map!  Go
back  to  Dread`s  ship, and set sail for Phatt Island.  When you arrive, go to
the  waterfall  and  climb  up until you reach a pump.  Using the monkey on the
pump  will  stop the water, and reveal a secret about the waterfall.  Go to the
bottom, enter the `newly discovered gaping hole` and keep going until you reach
a beach.  Go to the cottage at the top of the screen, open the left window then
walk  through  the  door.   Inside  you`ll find Captain Rum - talk to him for a
while,  then challenge him to a fight.  He will back down, but challenge you to
a  grog-drinking  contest instead.  He will provide the grog (the strong stuff)
which  you  should  throw into the nearest tree and replace with some near-grog
(low- alcohol).  Sit down, and when Rum comes back drink the near-grog and wait
for him to pass out.

Now  he`s  unconscious put the mirror in the frame, then go outside and use the
telescope  on  the  grotesque statue.  A ray of light will bounce of the mirror
and focus on a brick in the wall (cue a song) - take note of which brick it is.
After  you`ve  picked  the telescope up, go inside, pick up the mirror and push
the  selected brick.  You should then fall into the cellar, where you`ll find a
skeleton with the third piece of map.  Pick it up, go left through the hole and
back  to  the  main island.  Head for the cemetery on Scabb Island, look at all
the tombs and go to into Stan`s crypt.  (What do you mean it`s locked?  Use the
crypt  key!)  Look  at  the  book  of  quotations  and memorise the one by Rapp
Scallion.   Looking  at all the tombs will reveal one with the same quote as an
epitaph,  so  open  it up and take some of the ashes from inside.  Remember the
Voodoo Lady`s shack?  Did you look on the shelves?  Can you guess what you must
do now?  Yes, go back to the shack in the swamp (close the tomb first), and try
to  get  the  ASH-2-LIFE(tm) potion bottle.  Talk to the Voodoo Lady, then give
her  the  book  (Joy  of  Hex)  and  the  ashes.   She  will give you some real
ASH-2-LIFE(tm).  Go back and use it on Rapp`s ashes, then watch him change from
a  pile of dust to a living, breathing, er, weenie cook.  Offer to turn the gas
off  back  at the weenie hut (on the beach where you started), and he will give
you  the  key  to  it.   Go back to the beach, and use the key on the door (the
weenie  hut behind Bart and Fink).  Go inside and use one of the stove knobs to
turn  off the gas.  Return to the tomb, use the potion on Rapp again, then tell
him  that  you`ve  turned  off the gas.  He will eventually give you the fourth
piece  of map (Yippeeee!).  Close the tomb and the crypt, then go and see Wally
(the  cartographer)  in  Woodtick.   Give him the model lighthouse lens and all
four  map  pieces, then ask him to draw up a new map.  This he will do, as long
as  you  promise  to get a love potion from the Voodoo Lady.  Go to her and get
one,  but  alas!  She will sense that Wally is in trub.  Go to Wally`s, look at
the  writing  on  the  table,  then go back to the swamp and open the Juju bag.
Open the crate, then use it.  Guybrush will then be taken to LeChuck`s fortress
by some delivery men.


@5PART 3 - LECHUCK`S FORTRESS@1
When  Guybrush gets out of the crate, head right and go through the door at the
top of the stairs.  Now walk right and keep doing so until you reach a dungeon.
Walk to the left cell and talk to Wally.  Now look at the spit- encrusted piece
of  paper,  showing  the  words to the song from the dream sequence.  Now write
down the first three bodily parts of each verse in the given order (e.g.  Verse
1  = Head, Hip, Leg etc).  Go back the way you came and if you pass a sculpture
in  the wall with the body bits in the order of verse 1 (e.g.  Head at the top,
Hip  in  the middle and Legs at the bottom - see screen), then push it and walk
through  the  gap.   If you don`t find a matching one by the time you reach the
sign  posts,  go down the back tunnel and keep looking.  Once you`ve done this,
do the same for the second and subsequent verses.  In the end, you will reach a
big  door with several locks on it.  Push the middle of the door and go through
the  doggy  flap.   The  key  to  Wally`s cell is on the wall next to LeChuck`s
throne  so  pick  it up.  LeChuck will capture you and leave you hanging around
with  Wally.   Drink  some  of the green drink and spit at the pan below you to
move  it  slightly.   Then  spit  at the shield to the right of Guybrush and it
should  bounce  of several things and put out the candle (if not, keep trying).
You will now escape and find yourself in the dark, so use a match from the Juju
bag and leave quietly (tee hee).


@5PART 4 - DINKY ISLAND@1
Once  you  arrive, walk right to the man and talk to him.  If you want, ask him
about philosophy then go through all the colours available (then all are plenty
of  them!)  to  discover  a  pointless fact about Zen existentiatisn.  Open the
barrel,  pick up the cracker and give it to the parrot.  Remember the direction
he gives you.  Go up the the still (the big shiny machine), pick up the martini
glass that`s on the ground and fill it with seawater.  If you now use the water
on  the  still, this will distill the water (remove the salt from it).  Pick up
the  crowbar  and  the  bottle  from the sea, then go left and into the jungle.
Take  the left path at the fork and follow it until you reach a tree with a bag
hanging  from its branch.  Use the bottle on the tree trunk then use the broken
bottle  on  the  bag.   Pick up its contents (a packet of instant cracker mix),
look  at  it  then  use it with the water in the martini glass to make two more
crackers.  Go back the way you came until you reach the fork.  Follow the other
path  and you should reach a pond (by the way - try wandering further until you
come across a call box - use it, just for a laugh).

Remove  the  rope  from  the  box,  then  open  it using the crowbar.  Take the
dynamite,  then  use  the  crowbar  with the rope to form a makeshift grappling
hook.   Follow  the  directions  that the parrot gave you, then give the parrot
another  cracker and follow his directions.  At the next point, give the parrot
your  last cracker and the directions will take you to a big X.  Use the shovel
on it then use the match on the dynamite.  Then use the lighted dynamite on the
hole.   Once  it  has  been blown open, enter the chamber and use the grappling
hook  on  the  frayed  metal  bars  that are round the hole.  Now you`re in the
darkness, click on the USE button then scan the screen for a light switch.  You
will  now  meet  LeChuck!   Talk to him for a bit, and he will begin stabbing a
voodoo doll of Guybrush, then transport you to a different part of the complex.
Walk  around  and  have  a look at various rooms (LeChunk will keep looking for
you,  zapping you from time to time).  When you find a room with lots of boxes,
open  the  nearest  ones  to  take a balloon, a doll and a bottle of root beer.
When you find the First Aid room, examine you Dad`s remains and take his skull.
Put  it  and the Kewpie doll into the Juju bag, thus making the beginnings of a
voodoo doll of LeChuck (the "One from the dead" in this case is the skull).  Go
to  the right of the screen, open the medical drawer and take the syringe, then
open  the  bin to the right and take the gloves.  Now go and find the room with
the  helium  tank and use the balloon and both surgical gloves on it.  Pull the
coin  return  on  the  grog  machine and a coin will roin onto the floor.  When
LeChuck  comes  in,  he  will pick up the coin.  At this moment, try to pick up
LeChuck  and  you will rip off his underwear ("One from the thread").  Give him
the hankerchief and he will blow his nose ("One from the body").  After he zaps
you,  make your way to the service elevator, press the button and get in.  (The
lift will only carry 900 pounds in weight, but luckily the helium filled things
in  your inventory make you lighter.) Wait until LeChuck arrives before pulling
the lever then the doors will close and trap a bit of his beard.  When the lift
stops,  pick up the beard and exit the lift to see a familier scene to original
MONKEY  ISLAND adventurers.  Put the other three relevent bits in the bag, then
Guybrush will make a voodoo doll of LeChuck.  Go back down in the lift, use the
lever  again,  and  exit  it.   Wait  for  LeChuck  to  arrive and then use the
hypodermic needle on the voodoo doll.  Now, the end is near, but we`re going to
leave  the rest to you.  Remember, whichever way you turn you`ll always come to
the ending, and WHAT an ending....