
                     @7        PINBALL ON THE AMIGA

                       @5         by zYLAX / PTK

@3The  Amiga  has been catered for well in pinball games.  There is the excellent
Digital  Illusions  (The  Silents)  trilogy which consists of:  Pinball Dreams,
Pinball   Fantasies,   Pinball  Illusions  and  the  possibility  of  a  fourth
incarnation  (Pinball  Mania  I  think, but don't quote me).  As well as these,
there is the recent ST port of Obsession.

Pinball  Dreams  in  the  game  which started the whole bat'n'ball craze on the
Amiga  years ago.  It came on two disks which contained four tables:  Ignition,
Steel  Wheel, Beat-Box and Nightmare.  Although the game is looking a bit dated
by  today's  standards,  it revolutionised the world of video games when it was
released.   This  was  mainly  due  to  it's incredibly realistic ball movement
(ooer!).

The  sequel,  Pinball Fantasies, soon followed to continue the tradition.  This
time  coming on three disks, containing another four tables.  Improved graphics
and  an  extra  flipper  graced  this offering to ensure it's place back in the
favour's  of  magazine  reviewers.  This game also had the privilage (or should
that be misfortune) of an appearance, in the form of a challenge, on the tragic
Gamesmaster.

The   latest   pinball   offering   from  Digital  Illusions  is  the  AGA-only
extravaganza:   Pinball  Illusions.   Coming  of  four  disks  and  featuring a
slightly  disappointing  three tables.  Although the in-game graphics have been
enhanced  with  the  inclusion of an hi-res option for the multi-ball mode, the
tables  are  a  bit  lame  compared to the previous games.  The one table I did
enjoy  playing  on,  though, was the police one (I forget it's real name) which
has some great Robocop-style background muzik on it.

The  final game is Obsession from Unique Developments in Sweden.  (Freaky Facts
of  the World No.  27634 - Why do all pinball games come from Sweden?) This two
disker  bears more of a likeness to Pinball Dreams than either of the following
games.   There  are four tables in Obsession which vary is quality.  X-ile Zone
is  total  cack  but  Desert  Run is quite good for instance.  One difference I
noticed  in this game from the Digital Illusions trilogy is that the ball seems
a lot heavier and it takes a great deal more effort to get it around the top of
the  tables.  An advantage (or disdvantage, depending on how you look at it) in
this  game  is  that  the tilt function is much easier to use and you can often
keep the ball in play for much longer by using it.

Finally, whichever pinball game you buy for your Amiga, you won't regret it!