
        @3           SCIENCE FICTION ON TERRESTRIAL TELEVISION
                       (OR IS IT TOO EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL!)

          @1                      by zYLAX / PTK

@5Because  of  it's  unpredictable  nature, science fiction has always been shyed
away  from  by  the  terrestrial  television stations.  I mean, would they risk
their  precious  ratings on an new, unknown epic, involving aliens and elements
of  the  supernatural underworld.  Or, opt for the safe option of chucking on a
documentary  about illegal importing of fried eggs!!  I think you can guess the
answer.

This is probably why the two main terrestrial channels - ITV and BBC1 have very
little  to offer in the way of quality science fiction entertainment.  BBC2 and
Channel 4, however, have shipped loads of good stuff over from the States.


@4BBC  2  is, by far, the best terrestrial channel at the moment for good science
fiction.   Star Trek - The Next Generatrion is on every Wednesday at 6.00pm and
The  Outer  Limits is on Monday's at 9.00pm.  As well as this the new season of
the   X-Files   is  due  for  imminent  broadcast  and  Gerry  Anderson's  new,
non-supermarionated, epic Space Precinct is also to be shown.

Channel  4 is putting up a good selection of stuff though.  Although the second
season  of  Babylon  5  has just finished (if Sky gets the third season of this
before  C4,  I am gonna be more than a bit miffed) C4 have done started to show
some  Manga productions.  I suppose you can class Anime in the same catagory as
science  fiction  seeing  as  most  of the plots are sci-fi based.  As far as I
know, apart from BBC2 showing the subtitled, original Japanese version of Akira
ages  ago,  this  is  the  first  showing  of  any  Manga  releases  on British
television.   Channel 4 has already shown the English versions of parts one and
two  of  Tokyo  Babylon  and  Cyber City OEDO 808 in their current Late License
season  on  Saturday's  at  around midnight.  Plus, some extra bonus points are
earned for the Sci-Fi weekend, currently being broadcast.

ITV is in a poor state of affairs, but I least it's putting some effort into it
with Time Trax on Saturday afternoons and the Alien Nation series, on at around
midnight.

BBC  1  is  by  far  the  most  dismal  of  all the stations.  The only vaguely
science-fiction  based programme I can come up with is the crap Bugs, which was
being  shown  on  Saturdays at 8:00pm.  Come on BBC1!  Don't be so conservative
all the time!  Take some risks, have a few laughs!

Channel 5? We shall see!


@5So,  while  the main terrestrial channels seem reluctant to risk new programmes
and  stick  with  their  nice'n'safe, guaranteed viewing figures for Coronation
Street and Eastenders.  BBC2 and Channel 4 hog the Sci-Fi limelight.