
                                SENSIBLE SOCCER

            @5         The review of Sensible Soccer by Ram 

   @4     (This review covers all the Sensible Soccer games except SWOS)

@1In  my  opinion  Sensible Soccer is one of the best games on the Amiga.  I love
the  shot when you press fire, pull back on the joystick and the ball goes over
the  other  half of the pitch.  I like all the pitches that you can get.  There
is wet, muddy, random, icy, normal, soft and hard.  There are all the different
pitch  types you can get.  There are 64 teams that you can choose from in SS94.
If  you  go  to  the specials on either the countrys or the teams you will find
that there are World Cups and other trophys to play for on SS94 edit.  When you
score  a  spectacular  goal and the replay comes on, you can press the R key to
get  a  slow  motion shot of your goal.  The team everyone can beat on Sensible
Soccer  94  edition is Valur.  I can beat them 9 or 10 nil.  Sensible Soccer is
where  all  these  little people are running around on a football pitch playing
football,  the  crowd  sound effects are good too.  Its like you're at a proper
match.   Its  good  when they allow you to make substitute and tactical changes
with  the  formation.  Most of my goals come from curlers from outside the goal
area.   Its  a lot better if you have two joysticks so that you and your friend
can  play  each  other in a cup or league.  Penalties I think are quite hard to
take.  If you do a bad fowl the little ref will come on and show you the red or
the  yellow  card.   If  you want you can make your own cup and league table by
going to the league or cup sign and doing anything you want.  If you go to edit
teams  you  can  put yourself in the squad with all your favourite players like
Cantona, Fowler, Ferdinand and Shearer.


              @3       RRRR      A    M       M
              @3       R   R    A A   MM     MM @5 999 TTT 555
              @3       R   R    A A   M M   M M @5 9 9  T  5
              @3       RRRR    A   A  M  M M  M @5 999  T  55
              @3       R  R    AAAAA  M   M   M @5   9  T    5
              @3       R   R  A     A M       M @5   9  T    5
              @3       R    R A     A M       M @5  9   T  55