
    @4                                  SFX

  @3                              by zYLAX / PTK

@5This  new  magazine  from  Future  Publishing  is  notable  for  it's  lack  of
computer-related  articles.   Ahhh...   I've  realized why now!  It's a science
fiction magazine, hence the name - SFX.

Go  to  any  newsagents  and you'll see magazines for computers, fishing, motor
sports  and  perverts  (ahem!).   But  one area that was severely lacking was a
decent  sci-fi  magazine.   So you'll be glad to hear that SFX continues Future
Publishing's  excellent  standard of magazines, which included Your Sinclair in
the past and the famous Amiga Format now.

SEX..OOPS!   Sorry!   SFX  (easy  mistake  to  make!) has currently reached its
fourth  issue  (September'95)  and  seems to be growing in popularity.  Whether
you're  an  avid  watch'n'video-every-sci-fi-thing-on-TV freak or you just like
seeing  the  odd  episode  of  X-Files  or  Star Trek, you'll find something of
interest  in  SFX.   Something  that  surprised  me in SFX was that they aren't
afraid  of  using  the odd bit of bad language when necessary.  For example the
first  issue  contained  an interview with the author Iain M.  Banks.  While he
was describing an aspect of his stories, he used the phrase:  DON'T TRY TO FUCK
WITH  IT.   Most magazines would be straight out with the exclamation marks and
astericks,  but  SFX proudly prints the answer for what it is (after all, it is
an interview so take it for what it is).

The  magazine  doesn't  even  stick  to  TV,  video  and movie based sci-fi and
includes  reviews  of  books,  models  and ..er...tosh!  Overall, everything is
researched well and the majority of the articles are going to be interesting to
a large percentage of the readers.

Obviously, if you think Star Trek is nothing more than a load of funny costumes
and  all  the  X-Files  should be shredded, then SFX won't interest you at all.
All  I'm  saying  is that SFX is good at what it sets out to do - be a magazine
dedicated to science fiction.  Highly recommended!