
               @5           SUPER SKIDMARKS - A REVIEW

                   @4             by zYLAX / PTK

@1The  original  Skidmarks  (despite  being  bugged  to hell) was a classic Amiga
racing game.  But one of the main problems with it was that it lacked challenge
coz the computer-controlled cars were piss easy to beat.

Now  we have the sequel which comes on no less than 8 (that's EIGHT) disks, can
have  eight  players racing simultaneously (using two linked A1200's) and makes
use of extra memory and AGA chipsets.

But  does  this improve the gane?  Is Dom Diamond mentally retarded?  YES!  (to
both questions)

Thankfully,  Super  Skidmarks seems a lot more stable than it's predecessor and
hasn't  got the tendency to bomb out at every five minutes.  Eight disks for an
overhead  racing  game may seem a tad over-the-top but once you start examining
them  a  bit more closely, you'll see that they've all been put to maximum use.
For  example,  there  are four track disks (each containing five different race
tracks), three car disks (each containing three different types of vehicle) and
a program disk.

One  of  my  main  critisisms with the original Skidmarks was that there was no
real  way  to  complete  the game, because of the lack of a proper championship
mode,  and  the  non-existant  challenge  presented by the computer cars.  This
meant  the  game  was  only  really  any use when you had more than one player.
Thankfully,  this has been rectified in this version and as well as options for
championships    relating    to   specific   vehicles,   the   skill   of   the
computer-controlled, clone cars has been sufficiently 'beefed-up' also.

As  far  as  options  go,  Super  Skids  is  packed  with  loads  of  suitably,
configurable  menus.   As far as the multi-player options go you can have up to
eight human players with a couple of A1200's and two TV's which go next to each
other  for a widescreen style game.  As well as this you can even play the game
in  hi-res  if you have the privilage of an AGA chipset.  Ya want vehicles?  Ya
got  formula  one,  mini's,  trucks,  beetles  and  even..erm..cows  on wheels!
(Which, incidentally, are pretty damn speedy!)

Something  else  about  Acid's  unique  style  of  games  programming  is their
attention  to detail.  Most games give you to tedious LOADING message when they
are  loading  a  new  level but Super Skidz let's you play a two player game of
Pong  while  it's preparing a new game.  (Try playing this while swapping disks
SIMULTANEOUSLY!  Not easy!)

I  have  no  choice but to say, as the risk of being proved wrong, that this is
the best overhead racing sim on the Amiga yet!

              @3                      COMMENT
                     The skidmark that isn't shit! (ha ha)

                         @7        RATING - 95%