
             @4              LOOKING INTO 'THE SCENE'

                @3                by zYLAX / PTK

@1At  the  rate at which technology is advancing, it is amazing to see a ten-year
old  computer still in widespread use.  But that's the Amiga for ya!
And,  in  my  opinion  the  scene  is  largely responsible for the Amiga's long
lifetime.   The  commercial  Amiga  press such as Amiga Format and CU Amiga can
slag  off  of  the  whole  scene  as  much as they like because of the cracking
groups,  but  take  a  look at how much Amiga software has been produced by the
scene:


@4DEMOS  - @5 Whether you like them or not, as well as forming a massive percentage
of the Amiga public domain, they have improved the quality of Amiga software in
general.   Let me explain!  The main reason for demos coming into existance was
so  that  the various groups could show off their coding prowess to the masses.
This  meant  that  some  very  complex and, more important, visually impressive
routines  were  being  created  for  the  Amiga.   This  also has the effect of
displaying the capabilities of the Amiga to the whole community of Amiga users.
Therefore,  software companies could no longer release trashy games and use the
excuse:  The machine wouldn't be able to handle it!

@4GAMES -@5 Although hardly any games are released within the scene, those who have
left  the  scene  to try their luck in the commercial market have produced some
amazing  results.   For  example  Bloodhouse (who I think are ex-members of the
Silents)  created  the  excellent  Stardust and Super Stardust.  Asteroids with
bells, whistles and a god-damn orchestra bolted on, and just imagine what would
have  happened  if Stardust was released way back in 1985, when the Amiga first
came  out.   The  other  scene  to  commercial success story is that of Digital
Illusions (also ex-Silents members), who produced the addictive Pinball series.
This included Pinball Dreams, Pinball Fantasies and Pinball Illusions which all
featured   great   graphics   and   music   as  well  as  the,  all  important,
just-one-more-go  playability.   Because games like these have been produced to
such  a  high standard, means that other games publishers have to improve their
own  standards  in  order  to  compete on a similar level.  This means that the
overall quality of Amiga games is set on a higher level and the games player is
getting the benefit.  Other machines, especially consoles, don't have this type
of quality control system.

@4CRACKING -@5 Alright, everybody has to admit it's a bad thing!  It doesn't matter
how  long  we  argue about the prices or quality of games, it's all irrelevant.
Cracking  can  not be justified.  The Amiga needs all the support it can muster
at  the  moment  and  this includes getting as many people as possible actually
buying games to encourage publishers back to the Amiga.

@4TRAINING -@5 Hmm...tricky!  At first thought you think:  Trainers go with Cracks,
therefore  they  are  wrong.   But  if  (as  Pazza  first suggested in a recent
Grapevine)  trainers were made which only worked on original versions of games,
it  would  not  only  be  some  kind  of reward for the honest people, but also
encourage the others to purchase games too.

@4UTILITIES  -@5  This  is  also  a  strong  area  for the scene.  Many of the most
efficient  and  famous  crunchers  are  made  by scene members.  Also, the most
famous  music  program  of  all  time  - SoundTracker, came directly from scene
coders.


@1By  the  way,  just  one  final  thought  for you to consider.  A while ago the
national press (The Sun and all the other unreadable arsewipes!) were attacking
computers  for  encouraging children to stay on their own and not make friends.
Then  how  do  they  explain  the  scene?   An international network whose main
objective  is  make friends and contacts, and this is all BECAUSE of computers!
Also,  while  world  leaders  have  petty, little negotiations around tables to
decide  who  to  have  wars  with,  the  scene  gets  on with it's own business
regardless of the colour, age or religion of the people involved.

So,  let's  hope  the  scene  never  dies coz it's one of the most intelligent,
international  organisations around.  Governments should take notice of how the
scene operates:

                       @7   On @3FRIENDSHIP@7 - not@3 PROFIT!