
            @4                   VIROCOP - REVIEW

                 @3               by zYLAX / PTK

@5Virocop  marks  Graftgold's  long-awaited  return to the Amiga.  (At least some
programmers  are  actually  releasing  new  products  for  the Amiga and aren't
wimping  out  by  "watching  to  see  how the situation develops".) Graftgold's
previous   releases  include  the  foxy  platform  romp:   Fire  and  Ice,  the
shoot'em'up:  Uridium 2, where the scenary is more of a threat than the enemies
and  old classic Paradroid'90.  The game was originally going to be called DAVE
after the main character, but seeing as there is a film with the same name they
decided against it and settled for the slightly-unoriginal Virocop.

So,  this  new  release  has  got  a  difficult task ahead of it to hold up the
reputation  of Graftgold gained by their previous games.  But, it not only does
this but could actually improve Graftgold's reputation further!

The  game  is  an  overhead  blaster in the style of Chaos Engine by The Bitmap
Brothers.   You  control  Dave,  a  droid whose main task is to roam around the
inside  of  a  computer,  eliminating  viruses (who take the form of alien-type
things)  from  games.   Being  able  to  place Dave in different games gave the
creators of Virocop a lot of scope for graphics.  This means that, although the
gameplay  stays  consistant, the graphics vary on each level (there's even some
references to Cannon Fodder if you can spot them).  This helps to give you some
incentive to try and progress further into the game.

But  Dave's  not  alone with all the big nasty monsters and has a soddin' great
arsenal  at  his disposal.  This includes lasers, homing missiles and three way
fire  amongst  other  weapons, which can be bought using credits collected from
"disposed of" baddies.

While  it  can  be  said that it's all been done before.  It's rarely done with
this  amount  of care and attention to presentation and playability.  There are
so  many  games  around  now  that require you to read a half a tree's worth of
manuals  and  have  a few qualifications just to play the damn things!  So it's
nice  to  see  a  decent  arcade-blaster  that ya can chuck in ya drive and get
straight into.  Virocop is that game!

                      @7              COMMENT
                            Infect your Amiga now!

                       @1          RATING - 89%