
               @1               STAR TREK - VOYAGER

                 @5               by zYLAX / PTK

@3Nobody  knows the meaning of life but if it were to bring pleasure to millions,
then  Gene  Roddenberry  (the  creator  of  Star  Trek)  can say his life was a
total success.

The  phenomenon  that  is Star Trek is not only a form of entertainment, it's a
way  of  life for some people.  Most TV programmes may be extended into further
series'  but  Star  Trek  has  even  gone  to NEW GENERATIONS as well different
locations,  and  now  an alternative starship.  Gone are the trusty Enterprises
(yes,  there  were  a few of them) and the sleek lines of the Voyager come into
view.

Star Trek - Voyager is the latest continuation of the Star Trek saga to hit our
screens.   That  is  if you have a video, but the first season is being planned
for  release  on  Sky sometime in October.  Upon watching the videos, the first
thing that's hits you is the change of crew.  Anybody who watches ST - The Next
Generation on BBC2 every week will find it slightly disorientating to see other
people doing the jobs we're used to ol' slap head, Captain Picard and Commander
Data  performing.  One of the most radical changes in Voyager is the appearance
of  a woman captain.  Captain Kathryn Janeway (played by Kate Mulgrew) commands
the  Voyager with a style unique to that of Picard's (Oh, and maybe a different
gender  too!).   While  Captain Picard usually appears calm, with a Vulcan-like
logical and emotionless [<- Not sure if that's a real word but it sounds kewl!]
manner,  Captain Janeway is much more enthusiastic and will often jump straight
into the chaos along with the crew.

I  will not go into the detail of the plot too much, as it's all set out in the
pilot  and  I'm  doing an episode guide next issue.  The crew of the Voyager is
made  up  of the original Starfleet personnel combined with some members of the
Maquis,  a rebel organisation.  This mixture of crew occured during an incident
involving  Voyager's  mission  to  capture a rebel Marquis ship.  But when both
Voyager and the Marquis ship are catapulted to an unmapped quadrant in space by
an  unknown  force,  the  crew  of the two ships are forced to work together in
order to find a way home to Starfleet territory.

Currently there have been three Star Trek - Voyager videos released.  These are
as follows:

  @4   VOLUME 1.1 - Caretaker       (stardate 48315.6) [Approx. 88mins]
     VOLUME 1.2 - Parallax        (stardate 48439.7) [Approx. 44mins]
                  Time and Again  (stardate 48498.7) [Approx. 44mins]
     VOLUME 1.3 - Phage           (stardate 48532.4) [Approx. 44mins]
                  The Cloud       (stardate 48546.2) [Approx. 44mins]