
                               WHY BUY AMIGA???

        @4 (This file is to show non-Amiga owners what they are missing)

     @3    The PC owners say YOUR PUNY COMPUTER IS NOT POWERFUL ENOUGH!
                   The console owners say roughly the same!
       And non-computer/console owners say BUT COMMODORE HAS GONE BUST!

@1   But  there  is  no  mistaking  the strong hold that the Amiga has got on the
British  market.   No  computer  in world history has gone UP in price once the
owning  company  has gone bust.  The machine went up in price by about 50 to 75
quid per machine and that was just an A500.  My mate got his for about 110 quid
and  within 2 weeks someone was offering him 200 quid for it, although this was
just  in  my area (Lincolnshire).  But now the future looks brighter the prices
have  dropped  by  about the same amount they went up by.  (I know this because
another  one  of  my  mates  just  got one for 100 quid, which, for a massively
upgradable  machine  like  the Amiga, is a steal) OK, the A1200 seems to be the
new  standard  machine but there are one hell of a lot of A500 owners out there
and if small software companies and indeed big software/hardware companies keep
on  supporting  our  great machine, then the the people who can't afford to buy
new 1200's, 4000's will help to keep the company alive and kicking in the Amiga
section.


  @5 To justify buying an Amiga just read the following:

    @7    Were do the console owners think their programmers come from???

     What  computer  (Atari ST excluded) can you buy ready to run for less
                     than 400 of your well earned pounds!

       Which  machine  has  the  widest  selection  of  PD and Shareware
                  in the WORLD (probably even the universe)!


@1OK  the  machine  has  had problems in the past, but don't knock it as it's the
most  popular  home  computer  in the UK.  Just sit back and think about it and
you'll see a whole new world.  The world of Amiga!

@3THIS  FILE  IS  INTENDED  TO  BE  SHOWN  TO  ALL NON-AMIGA OWNERS AND HOPEFULLY
PERSUADE THEN TO BUY AN AMIGA.

@1Thank You...
  @5                                   G B I I
                                      O L I N 9T5